# ndss26_rtcon

RTC ON: Context-Adaptive Function-Level Fuzzing for RTOS Kernels Eunkyu Lee

## KAIST

School of Electrical Engineering ekleezg@kaist.ac.krJunyoung Park

## KAIST

School of Electrical Engineering parkjuny@kaist.ac.krInsu Yun

##  Abstract   

Real-Time Operating System (RTOS) is widely used in embedded systems with its various subsystems such as Blue- tooth and Wi-Fi. As its functionalities grow, its attack surface also expands, exposing it to more security threats. To address this, dynamic testing techniques like fuzzing have been widely applied to embedded systems. However, for RTOS, these techniques struggle to effectively test deeply located functions within the kernel due to their complexity. In this paper, we present RTC ON, a context-adaptive function- level fuzzer for RTOS kernels. RTC ONperforms function-level fuzzing on any target functions within the RTOS kernel by adap- tively generating function contexts during fuzzing. Additionally, RTC ONemploys Multi-layer Classification to classify crashes by confidence levels, helping analysts focus on high-confidence crashes. We implemented the prototype of RTC ONand evaluated it on four popular RTOS kernels: Zephyr, RIOT, FreeRTOS, and ThreadX. As a result, RTC ONdiscovered 27 bugs, including 25 new bugs. We reported all of them to maintainers and received 14 CVEs. RTC ONalso demonstrated its effectiveness in crash classification, achieving a 92.7% precision for high-confidence crashes, compared to a 5.8% precision for low-confidence crashes.

## I. I NTRODUCTION

A Real-Time Operating System (RTOS) is an operating system designed for time-sensitive tasks in environments with limited resources. RTOS is optimized not only for managing time-sensitive tasks but also for supporting various peripherals critical to modern embedded applications. Thus, most RTOS projects currently provide integrated support for various fea- tures, such as Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and Ethernet [1], [2], [3], [4]. As RTOSes expand their functionalities, their attack surface also grows, raising the risk of security vulnerabilities. More seriously, many RTOSes even lack conventional protections, such as Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) or stack canaries [5]. This is due to performance concerns or hardware constraints (e.g., the absence of an MMU) as RTOSes target resource-constrained embedded devices. As a result, even a simple vulnerability can lead to serious impacts, such as remote code execution or denial-of-service [6].Despite extensive security research on embedded de- vices [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15], two main challenges remain for RTOS kernels. First, we need a scalable method to test the various subsystems provided by the RTOS kernel. One promising approach for testing embedded devices is to emulate them and apply dynamic testing techniques, such as fuzzing. However, this approach can only cover a subset of functionalities due to limited support for various embedded boards and peripherals. We may use real-world devices to alleviate this issue, but this approach also struggles with a lack of scalability and limited resources. Second, it is also challenging to test deeply located func- tions in RTOSes due to their complex execution contexts. For example, the Bluetooth subsystem, which is commonly provided by RTOSes, involves complex protocols and states. To reach deep Bluetooth functions, we need to establish connections following its complex protocol. Although many security analysts have developed manual end-to-end fuzzers to test such functions [16], [17], [18], [19], they require substantial effort for protocol analysis and implementation. One approach to address this reachability issue is function- level fuzzing. Function-level fuzzing is an approach where, instead of fuzzing the entire system, the fuzzer directly tests specific functions (i.e., target functions) that are selected for testing. Previous works [20], [21], [22], [23] have shown that function-level fuzzing can effectively identify bugs across vari- ous libraries. However, function-level fuzzing introduces a new challenge: the absence of context. For example, in Bluetooth, most functions require a valid Bluetooth connection. Without this, these functions may crash or terminate prematurely due to missing context. As a result, function-level fuzzing may terminate early due to unintended crashes. To address these challenges, we propose RTC ON, a context- adaptive function-level fuzzer for RTOS kernels. RTC ONcan fuzz anytarget functions, including deeply located functions, without any need to predefine or analyze complex RTOS kernel contexts. Specifically, RTC ONis not limited to fuzzing top-layer functions (i.e., API functions), which some previous works [20], [21] were limited to as they require analyzing function usage points. Moreover, RTC ONuses adaptive con- text generation to remove the need for manually constructing contexts or going through complex analysis phases to constructNetwork and Distributed System Security (NDSS) Symposium 2026 23-27 February 2026, San Diego, CA, USA

## ISBN 979-8-9919276-8-0

https://dx.doi.org/10.14722/ndss.2026.241600 www.ndss-symposium.org

contexts. The key idea of RTC ONis to generate contexts on-demand while fuzzing target functions, as inspired by X- Force [24], but adaptively to explore paths blocked by specific contexts. With this, RTC ONcan generate appropriate context values based on the operands of the branch conditions. One big issue with function-level fuzzing is its false pos- itives due to unknown function constraints. To mitigate this issue, RTC ONuses Multi-layer Classification to categorize crashes based on their confidence level. The core idea is that a crash is likely to be valid if it occurs both when fuzzing the target function and its ancestor functions. If a crash occurs only in the target function, it is likely to be a false positive. Otherwise, it is likely to be an actual bug (i.e., high confi- dence). This classification allows security analysts to focus on high-confidence crashes. Notably, previous approaches [25], [22] rely on static analysis to extract function constraints and filter out false positives. However, these approaches are limited in extracting constraints due to obstacles that hinder static analysis, such as indirect calls and complex control flows. RTC ON, on the other hand, can overcome these limitations by testing the target functions in multiple layers during fuzzing. We implemented the prototype of RTC ONand evaluated it on 4 real-world open-source RTOSes: Zephyr [26], RIOT [27], FreeRTOS [28], ThreadX [29]. As a result, RTC ONfound 27 bugs in total, with 25 previously unknown bugs. We reported all the bugs to the respective maintainers, and 14 of them were assigned CVE IDs. Also, RTC ONcan classify crashes based on their confidence levels, allowing security analysts to focus on high-confidence crashes. As a result, RTC ON achieved an 92.7% precision (76 out of 82) for high-confidence crashes, compared to a 5.8% (19 out of 329) precision for low- confidence crashes. The contributions of our work are as follows: •We propose RTC ON, a context-adaptive function-level fuzzer that fuzzes any target functions directly without any given function contexts. RTC ONsuccessfully clas- sifies crashes based on their confidence levels, allowing security analysts to focus on high-confidence crashes. •We evaluated RTC ON on 4 real-world open-source RTOSes to demonstrate its effectiveness. Notably, RTC ONcould find 27 bugs, with 25 previously unknown bugs, including 14 CVE ID issued. •We open-source RTC ON to the public to encour- age further research on this area: https://github.com/ kaist-hacking/RTCon

## II. B ACKGROUND

A. Real-Time Operating System Real-Time Operating System (RTOS) is an operating system designed to handle time-critical tasks. It focuses on processing tasks within a specific time frame, rather than maximizing throughput as in general-purpose operating systems. RTOS is typically used in embedded systems since they require specific tasks to be completed before their deadlines, given the limited computational resources.RTOS kernels provide various subsystems, including Blue- tooth [1], [3], Wi-Fi [4], and network stacks [30], to support diverse devices and systems. Most RTOS projects make these features configurable [31], [32], enabling developers to build comprehensive applications suited to a wide range of systems. However, these diverse functionalities introduce various security issues. For example, the Bluetooth and network sub- systems, which are widely adopted in IoT devices, expand the attack surface through externally exposed communication channels. If we have vulnerabilities in these subsystems, attackers can exploit them to compromise the system or launch denial-of-service attacks from remote locations. Unfortunately, many RTOS kernels still lack traditional mitigation techniques (e.g., ASLR, stack canaries) due to hardware constraints or performance concerns [5]. As a result, even simple vulnera- bilities can easily lead to severe implications, such as remote code execution [6]. B. Dynamic Testing on RTOS Kernels Fuzzing [33], [34], [35] is a widely used technique that dynamically tests systems to identify vulnerabilities. Thus, several RTOS projects provide fuzzing libraries to allow security analysts to test their systems [36], [37]. Despite their effort to find bugs, it is still challenging to implement fuzzers for diverse subsystems within RTOS kernels. This is mainly because we require substantial engineering effort to manually craft fuzzers for numerous functions within complex subsystems (e.g., Bluetooth). Furthermore, analysts need to conduct comprehensive protocol analysis to test deep functions invoked at the end of complex protocol flows.

## III. M OTIVATION

A. Motivating example In this section, we present a motivating example that demon- strates the challenges of testing deeply located functions in RTOS kernels. Figure 1 shows a code snippet of CVE-2024- 8798, which is an out-of-bounds read vulnerability caused by integer underflow bugs in the Zephyr RTOS kernel. This function, avdtp_process_configuration , is responsible for setting local Bluetooth device configuration during an Audio/Video Distribution Transport Protocol (A VDTP) con- nection. It first retrieves the Streaming Endpoint object ( sep) from the ID parsed from the Bluetooth message ( buf) (Line 13). Then, if the sep is valid and the state of the sep is notAVDTP_STREAMING , it parses Initiator ID ( int_seid ) from the message (Line 24). Finally, it indirectly calls set_configuration_ind handler to set configuration for the remote streaming endpoint (Line 25). This code contains integer underflow bugs at Line 13 and Line 24. This happens because the function does not check the minimum length of the message ( buf) before pulling data from it. As a result, if an attacker sends a message shorter than 2 bytes, an integer underflow occurs in one of two vulnerable locations (Line 13 and Line 24) when attempting to pull 1 byte from an empty buffer. Then, the remaining buffer length 2

1uint8_t net_buf_pull_u8( struct net_buf *buf) { 2 buf->len -= 1; // Integer underflow 3 return *buf->data++; // Out-of-bounds read 4} 5 6static void avdtp_process_configuration( struct bt_avdtp *session, 7 struct net_buf *buf, uint8_t msg_type, uint8_t tid) { 8 if(msg_type == BT_AVDTP_CMD) { 9 int err = 0; 10 struct bt_avdtp_sep *sep; 11 12 // Get the stream endpoint from id 13 sep = avdtp_get_sep( net_buf_pull_u8(buf) >> 2); 14 if((sep == NULL) || 15 (session->ops->set_configuration_ind == NULL)) { 16 err = -ENOTSUP; 17 }else { 18 if(sep->state == AVDTP_STREAMING) { 19 err = -ENOTSUP; 20 }else { 21 uint8_t int_seid; 22 // No check for remaining buffer size 23 // Out-of-bounds read when it tries to pull 1 byte 24 int_seid = net_buf_pull_u8(buf); 25 err = session->ops->set_configuration_ind(session, 26 sep, int_seid, buf, &error_code); 27 } 28 } 29 } 30} Fig. 1: Motivating example (CVE-2024-8798): The code shaded in red indicate vulnerable code. An integer underflow occurs when attempting to pull 1 byte from an empty buffer. is under-wrapped, and it leads to undefined behavior in further message processing. B. Challenges & Approaches Unfortunately, existing approaches struggle to find deeply located bugs in RTOS kernels. In this section, we discuss technical challenges of existing approaches and our approaches to address them. C1. Limitations of Embedded System Fuzzers One common approach for testing embedded systems is to emulate the system or use real-world devices. Unfortunately, these methods are not typically applicable to RTOS kernels. While RTOS projects support multiple boards, emulation- based approaches [38], [39] often lack support for specific boards and peripherals. As a result, we can only test the partial features that are supported by the emulator. Obviously, it is well-known that implementing the diverse set of peripherals and boards manually is burdensome [40]. We might alleviate this burden by using on-device fuzzing [41] or semi-emulating the system [42], [43], [44], [15], but they are also struggled with scalability and performance issues. It is also challenging to reach functions, especially those requiring complex contexts. In this example, to dynamically test the function avdtp_process_configuration , we need to construct the required Bluetooth connection (e.g., A VDTP connection) by following complex protocols [45]. Many devel- opers craft specialized fuzzing harnesses to test functionality deep in the protocol stack, but it requires significant manual effort to analyze the protocol. Our Approach: Function-level Fuzzing. To address scal- ability and reachability issues, RTC ONuses function-level fuzzing . This approach enables fuzzing of target functionsTABLE I: Comparison of function-level fuzzing tools. RTC ON applies adaptive context generation to construct complex RTOS kernel contexts, reducing false positives without heavy analysis for tracking function constraints. Tool Target Function Context Gen. Constraint Scope FuzzGen [20] External API - - FUDGE [21] External API - - FuzzSlice [23] All Random 0-level (Callee only) AFGen [22] All Random 1-level (Caller + Callee) RTC ON All Adaptive Multi-level (n-depth) without requiring real-world or emulated devices. In other words, RTC ONcan start the fuzzing process by directly calling the target function, completely bypassing the boot- up phase, including device checks and initialization routines. Moreover, RTC ONcan fuzz any deeply located functions without exploring the execution paths required to reach them. C2. Constructing Context for Function-level Fuzzing Even though we can address the scalability and reachability issues using function-level fuzzing, it is still challenging to apply function-level fuzzing in large systems (e.g., RTOS kernels). This is due to the lack of context to invoke specific functions. Without this, the fuzzer cannot reach deeper code within the function and may terminate early due to unintended crashes. In this example, to reach the vulnerable code (Line 24), the fuzzer should satisfy multiple branch conditions (Lines 8, 14, and 18). Unfortunately, since these conditions are independent of the user input ( buf), simply fuzzing the user input is insufficient to reach the vulnerable code. As shown in Table I, some previous studies have at- tempted to construct contexts using various techniques (e.g., fuzzing [23], [22] or API inference [21], [20]); however, these approaches are not particularly effective for large-scale systems like RTOS kernels. For example, FuzzSlice [23] and AFGen [22] use fuzzing to construct contexts and show their effectiveness in finding bugs in libraries. However, when it comes to RTOS kernels, fuzzing is unlikely to create valid contexts, as the kernel contexts are too complicated, typically consisting of nested structures of kernel objects. On the other hand, FUDGE [21] and FuzzGen [20] attempt to construct legitimate contexts by invoking API functions. However, these approaches cannot be applied to creating internal kernel contexts, since they are typically not exposed through external APIs. For example, to fuzz the target function avdtp_process_configuration shown in Figure 1, we need session object as an argument. This object cannot be derived as it is internally managed by the kernel and not exposed through any external APIs. Our Approach: Adaptive Context Generation. To generate contexts for any given function, RTC ONemploys a technique called Adaptive Context Generation . RTC ONstarts with iden- tifying context-related variables using inter-procedural taint analysis. Then, RTC ONinstruments the context-generating 3

Project Sources Target Functions ANALYZERBi-directional Call Graph Construction Inter-procedural Taint Analysis Call Graph Context Taint Info Context SanitizationADAPTIVE CONTEXT GENERATOR (ACG ) Patching Indirect CallResolving Taint Inconsistency MULTI-LAYER CLASSIFIER (MLC)Verifier Harness High ConfidenceContext Generation Function Replication Crash Crash Target HarnessFuzzing Fuzzing Low Confidence Fig. 2: Overview of RTC ON hooks at these variables. These hooks adaptively generate con- text at runtime, guided by branch conditions, to maximize code coverage. Notably, this method allows RTC ONto eliminate the need for analyzing complex context structures. C3. False Positives of Function-level Fuzzing When we directly fuzz target functions, it can produce false positives due to the function constraints. These constraints are typically induced by the parent functions in the call graph. For example, even if we found a buffer overflow in a target function due to a missing length check, it might be benign if the parent function already validates the length. Despite its importance, obtaining precise function con- straints is limited. AFGen [22], a state-of-the-art function- level fuzzer, derives function constraints from control flow analysis of caller functions. Similarly, Griller [25] uses sym- bolic execution to extract constraints from the parent functions. While both AFGen and Griller are effective in constructing simple constraints, due to the complexity of static analysis, they struggle with complex control flows or indirect calls com- monly found in RTOSes. For instance, AFGen [22] collects constraints by performing backward control flow tracing, but only to a single depth due to the complexity of nested control flows. This limitation hinders the inspection of constraints located deeper in the control flow. Our Approach: Multi-layer Classification. Unlike previous work [22], which attempts to mitigate the constraints of identi- fied crashes, RTC ONfocuses on determining whether crashes can be reproduced from parent functions for classification. To this end, RTC ONuses Multi-layer Classification to categorize the crashes based on their confidence levels. The core idea is that if a crash is detected in a callee function, and is not also detected in its caller function, it is likely to be a false positive. To implement this, RTC ONemploys multi-layer fuzzing, which performs fuzzing on both the target function and top- layer functions (i.e., other functions that have no callers and can reach the target function). RTC ONregards the crashes reproduced in top-layer functions as high confidence crashes, whereas crashes detected only in the target function are considered low confidence crashes.IV. D ESIGN A. Overview Figure 2 depicts the overview of RTC ON. RTC ONcon- sists of three components: 1) Target Analysis (A NALYZER ),

- 2) Adaptive Context Generator (ACG), and 3) Multi-layer

Classifier (MLC). Given the project source code and a list of target functions, A NALYZER constructs a call graph and uses inter-procedural taint analysis to identify context-related variables (§IV-B). Then, based on the results of A NALYZER , ACG constructs harnesses that adaptively generate contexts to explore the target functions (§IV-C). Finally, after running the harnesses, MLC classifies the detected crashes by their confidence levels (§IV-D).

## B.ANALYZER

- 1) Call Graph Construction:

ANALYZER generates call graphs with a given list of target functions and the RTOS kernel source code. For each target function, A NALYZER constructs call graphs bi-directionally by recursively identifying functions that either 1) are called by (i.e., forward) or 2) call (i.e., backward) the target function with a series of function calls. A NALYZER also identifies top- layer functions , which are the functions in the call graph that can reach the target function but have no parent functions. These top-layer functions are later used in MLC to generate verifier harnesses. Unlike previous works [12], [22], A NALYZER tracks indirect calls between nodes in the graph. This is necessary to handle callbacks, which are common in RTOS kernels. To achieve this, A NALYZER leverages SVF [46] to infer the possible edges between two arbitrary nodes. Internally, they resolve indirect calls through flow- insensitive pointer analysis of function pointers. While flow- insensitive pointer analysis offers high performance, it intro- duces false positives, resulting in a call graph that includes more functions than necessary. Since an inaccurate call graph significantly reduces the efficiency of subsequent analysis and crash classification, A NALYZER performs a simple function prototype analysis on indirect calls to optimize the call graph.

- 2) Inter-procedural Taint Analysis:

Intra-procedural taint analysis. ANALYZER performs taint analysis to trace the data flow of function contexts. Unlike traditional taint analysis, which taints values that are dependent 4

on user inputs, A NALYZER taints values that are independent of user inputs. This allows A NALYZER to utilize the over- approximation of taint analysis. Specifically, untainted vari- ables are assumed to rely solely on user inputs, perfectly in- dependent of the contexts. By doing so, when running fuzzing harnesses, RTC ONcan determine whether a crash is due to an uninitialized context or a potential bug. If a crash occurs due to untainted variables (i.e., user-controllable inputs), RTC ON reports it as a potential bug. Otherwise, RTC ONconsiders that it happens due to the uninitialized context and attempts to dynamically generate the missing context during fuzzing. It is important to note that RTC ONleverages the generated context to explore deeper code paths, but not to detect vulnerabilities introduced by those contexts. Figure 3 shows the intra-taint analysis results for Figure 1. In this example, the arguments session ,msg_type ,tid become the taint sources as they are not related to the user input buf (Lines 2-3). Taint propagates from sep tostate (Line 15) as well as session toset_configuration_ind (Line 22) according to propagation rules. We detail the intra- procedural propagation rules in Algorithm 1 in Appendix. Inter-procedural taint propagation. ANALYZER performs inter-procedural analysis using a fixed-point iteration [47]. The analysis consists of two steps: 1) A NALYZER initially over-approximates taint information of each function, and

- 2) it lazily updates this information based on the callee’s

results. First, if a callee has not yet been analyzed, A NALYZER regards its return value and reference arguments as tainted (i.e., context-related variables). This is a conservative decision as the callee’s taint information is unknown. Second, once ANALYZER completes the analysis of the callee, A NALYZER revisits its callers to update taint information. This may result in removing taints from the results of the callee, which were previously assumed tainted in the first step. These changes in taints may propagate to the arguments of other function calls, which may result in reanalyzing them. This process continues until the taint information stabilizes with no further changes. In the example of Figure 3, RTC ONinitially marks both the return value 1sep ofavdtp_get_sep (Line 11) and 2 int_seid ofnet_buf_pull_u8 (Line 21) as tainted. Then, after analyzing avdtp_get_sep and net_buf_pull_u8 , RTC ONrevisits the function to remove the taint from 2 int_seid as it is not tainted in the callee function. The change in the taint status of int_seid propagates to an argu- ment of session->ops->set_configuration_ind (Line 23), which makes it reanalyzed accordingly. C. Adaptive Context Generator ( ACG ) ACG constructs harnesses that adaptively generate contexts. To achieve this, ACG instruments hooks on the context-related variables. Specifically, ACG instruments two types of hooks forcontext sanitization and context generation [24], [48]. Context sanitization prevents the fuzzer from crashing due to uninitialized contexts, while context generation constructs missing contexts during fuzzing. 1 staticvoidavdtp_process_configuration ( 2 struct bt_avdtp *session, struct net_buf *buf, 3 uint8_t msg_type ,uint8_t tid) 4 { 5 if(msg_type ==BT_AVDTP_CMD) { 6 //local variables are initially untainted 7 interr=0; 8 struct bt_avdtp_sep *sep; 9 10 // ①return value of avdtp_get_sep remains tainted 11 sep=avdtp_get_sep (net_buf_pull_u8( buf)>>2); 12 if(sep==NULL){ 13 //... 14 }else{ 15 if(sep->state==AVDTP_STREAMING) { 16 err=-ENOTSUP; 17 }else{ 18 uint8_t int_seid ; 19 20 //②return value of net_buf_pull_u8 becomes untainted 21 int_seid =net_buf_pull_u8( buf); 22 err=session->ops->set_configuration_ind (session, 23 sep,int_seid ,buf,&error_code ); 24 } 25 } 26} 27 }: Taint (i.e. Context -related) : Untaint (i.e. User -controllable) : intra-procedural taint propagation : inter-procedural taint propagationFig. 3: Code after inter-procedural taint analysis.

- 1) Context Sanitization: Context sanitization is responsible

for filtering out crashes related to uninitialized contexts. From the taint analysis results from A NALYZER , ACG identifies context-related variables. If crashes occur due to these vari- ables, ACG avoids reporting them as bugs. Instead, it avoids crashes by dynamically generating new memory regions or skipping crash points. ACG handles the following two cases in particular: load/store instructions and function calls. Load/Store instruction. ACG sanitizes load/store instruc- tions that are related to contexts. These instructions interrupt fuzzing when the fuzzer accesses invalid memory addresses due to uninitialized context values, such as NULL for pointers. To prevent harnesses from being interrupted, ACG instruments the context-related load/store instructions with sanitization hooks. These hooks check the validity of the address by trying to access the memory, and then catch any crashes that occur from invalid memory accesses. Whenever an invalid memory access is detected, the hooks dynamically allocate new memory regions and assign them to the corresponding variables to allow fuzzing to continue. Figure 4a depicts the process of sanitizing load in- structions. ACG starts with instrumenting a hook function sanitizeLoad to the context-related variable sep. Then, when the harness accesses sep with the load instruction, the hook first tries to access the memory. If a crash occurs from an invalid memory access, the hook catches the crash, allocates a new memory region, and assigns it to the variable. Finally, the harness continues fuzzing without crashing. 5

L14: sep=sanitizeLoad (sep);   //Sanitize sep sep->state=... //Safe access tosepL14: sep->state=... //Unsafe access tosep ①Reference ②Allocation on crash 0xdeadbeef0x4080000 Valid address Invalid address(a) An example of sanitizing a load instruction L22: err=sanitizeIndirectCall (set_configuration_ind , session, sep, …); //Crash safeL22: err = session ->ops->set_configuration_ind (session, sep, …);//Crash unsafe ①Invoke indirect call validCallback (session, …) NULL(session, …)②Catch crash③Restore (b) An example of sanitizing an indirect call L5: if (msg_type == BT_AVDTP_CMD) {   //Always false L5: msg_type = generateCTX (msg_type, BT_AVDTP_CMD); //Generate context if (msg_type == BT_AVDTP_CMD) {   //Condition true ①Generate candidates Candidates msg_type

## BT_AVDTP_CMD -1

## BT_AVDTP_CMD

BT_AVDTP_CMD + 1Fuzzing Input (for Context) 0010101100②Select a value based on fuzzing input③Modify the operand (c) An example of context generation Fig. 4: Hooks for context sanitization and generation Function Call. There are two types of function calls that ACG needs to sanitize: 1) indirect calls and 2) calls to the functions that are not instrumented. First, ACG sanitizes indirect calls with the function pointers related to contexts. These calls can interrupt fuzzing if the function pointers are uninitialized or invalid. To prevent the crashes, ACG instruments indirect calls with sanitization hooks. These hooks first check the destinations of the function pointers by trying to call them. If a destination is invalid, it catches the crash that occurred from the invalid function pointer and then skips the call to continue fuzzing. Figure 4b depicts the process of sanitizing an indirect call. ACG instruments the hook function sanitizeIndirectCall to the function pointer session->ops->set_configuration_ind . Then, when the harness makes an indirect call, the hook first tries to call the function with the function pointer. If a crash occurs due to the invalid function pointer, the hook catches the crash, skips the call, and continues fuzzing. Second, ACG sanitizes function calls that are not instru- mented. This is because ACG can only determine if a crash is due to uninitialized context when it occurs within an instrumented function. Crashes outside instrumented functions cannot be evaluated in this way. This is because hooks, which ACG uses to detect uninitialized contexts, are only inserted with instrumentation. To prevent such crashes from interrupting fuzzing, ACG instruments the function calls with sanitization hooks. When a crash occurs, these hooks skip the //Argument comesfromuser-input bt_addr_le_str (&req->addr, str, sizeof(str)); // Argument comes from context variable bt_addr_le_str (&conn->le.dst, str, sizeof(str)); REPLICATE_0_ bt_addr_le_str(&req ->addr, str, sizeof(str)); REPLICATE_1_ bt_addr_le_str(&conn ->le.dst, str, sizeof(str)); staticint REPLICATE_0_ bt_addr_le _to_str(constbt_addr_le_t *addr, char*str,size_tlen) { switch(addr->type){ caseBT_ADDR_LE_PUBLIC :staticint REPLICATE_1_ bt_addr_le _to_str(constbt_addr_le_t *addr, char*str,size_tlen) { addr= sanitizeLoad (addr); type = generateCTX (addr->type); switch(type){ caseBT_ADDR_LE_PUBLIC :Fig. 5: An example of function replication function call and restore the execution state to just after the call, allowing fuzzing to continue smoothly.

- 2) Context Generation: ACG generates contexts adaptively

by capturing and using the operands involved in the context- related comparisons. This allows ACG to explore branches blocked by specific contexts. To achieve this, ACG takes three steps: 1) generating new value candidates from the operands,

- 2) selecting a value from the candidates, and 3) modifying the

operand to the selected value. First, ACG generates new candidate values for the compar- isons. To do this, ACG starts with instrumenting a hook right before the comparison to capture the operands. Then, ACG generates new values by slightly modifying the operands, mak- ing them likely to affect the branch direction. In the example of Figure 4c, the comparison operands are msg_type and BT_AVDTP_CMD , so the candidates could be msg_type (i.e., no modification), BT_AVDTP_CMD andBT_AVDTP_CMD ±1. Second, ACG uses a part of the fuzzing input as a seed to select a value from the candidates. Specifically, ACG partitions the fuzzing input into two dedicated parts: one for user input and the other for context generation. In the example, as the fuzzing input for context generation is 0b10 = 2 , ACG selects BT_AVDTP_CMD as the new value for the operand. Finally, ACG modifies the operand to the selected value. ACG replaces the operand with the selected value, expecting to change the branch direction. In the example, ACG modifies the operand of msg_type toBT_AVDTP_CMD based on the fuzzing input, allowing ACG to enter the true branch. ACG manages a mapping to ensure consistent context generation results for the same comparisons. If the compar- isons have the same operands, they should have the same generated values. For example, a comparison within a loop should consistently give the same result if the comparison is independent of the loop iteration. To achieve this, ACG stores the generated values for the current location with their corresponding operands. When ACG executes the comparison, it refers to the mapping to determine whether to reuse the existing value or generate a new one.

- 3) Function replication: ACG can identify context-related

variables more accurately as taint analysis becomes more precise. Imprecise taint analysis can lead to wrongly marking 6

top-level function bt_acl_recv bt_l2cap_recv target functionCall graph ......voidbt_acl_recv (structbt_conn *conn, structnet_buf *buf, uint8_t flags) { ... buf=conn->rx; //User input tainted bt_l2cap_recv(conn, buf,true); } bufis treated as context variableFig. 6: An example of taint inconsistency. buf is marked as context-related due to taint propagation from conn . But, buf is not context-related, leading to a missed crash afterward. variables as context-related. This can cause ACG to lose an opportunity to detect crashes due to user-controllable inputs, as ACG will wrongly try to resolve the crashes by generating contexts for user inputs. This often occurs in function calls, where different function calls can have different sets of tainted arguments. For example, in Figure 5, the function bt_addr_le_str is called with two different sets of tainted arguments. The first call has the first argument untainted, while the second call has it as tainted. With the standard method of taint analysis, which over- approximates the taints, the first argument of the function will be considered tainted even if it is possible to not be. This leads to over-tainting, which decreases the precision of the analysis. ANALYZER uses context-sensitive analysis [49] to achieve a more precise taint analysis. Specifically, A NALYZER im- plements 1-level context-sensitive analysis (1-CFA) through function replication . By replicating functions for different sets of tainted arguments, A NALYZER prepares multiple versions of the function. These versions consider all possible sets of taint sources, treating them as distinct functions when there are two or more different combinations of taint sources. The caller then selects the appropriate version based on the taint information of the arguments. Figure 5 shows an example of function replication. In the figure, the function bt_addr_le_str is called with two different sets of tainted arguments, one having the first argument untainted while the other having it as tainted. A NALYZER replicates the function into two ver- sions, REPLICATE_0_bt_addr_le_str andREPLICATE_1_ bt_addr_le_str , based on the taint information of the first argument. Then, A NALYZER analyzes both versions of the function, which results in identifying different sets of tainted variables. This leads to ACG instrumenting hooks in different places for each version, allowing ACG to generate contexts precisely based on the taint information of the arguments. D. Multi-Layer Classifier ( MLC ) MLC performs multi-layer fuzzing to classify crashes de- tected from the target harness (i.e., the harness for the target function). The core idea is to verify these crashes by checking if they can also be triggered at higher-layer functions in the call graph, particularly at those in the top layers. To do this, MLC constructs verifier harnesses , which are the harnesses for thetop-layer functions. Then, MLC compares crashes detected by these verifier harnesses with those found by the target harness to identify the same crashes. Based on the results, MLC classifies the crashes into three categories: high confidence, low confidence, and unverifiable. If a verifier harness detects the same crash as the target harness does, MLC classifies it as high confidence, indicating a likely true positive. If no verifier harness detects the same crash, MLC classifies it as low confidence, suggesting a likely false positive. If the target function has no associated top- layer functions (i.e., it is the top-layer function itself), MLC classifies the crash as unverifiable. When MLC constructs verifier harnesses, it faces two main obstacles: 1) indirect calls and 2) taint inconsistencies. First, indirect calls hinder MLC from ensuring that top- layer functions can effectively reach the target functions. This issue arises from invalid function pointers originating from uninitialized contexts, which can cause certain indirect calls to be skipped due to sanitization (see function call in §IV-C1). Since these calls may be essential for reaching the target functions, skipping them can prevent functions from successfully reaching the target. Second, taint inconsistencies can cause verifier harnesses to miss crashes. These inconsistencies occur when taint analy- sis mistakenly over-approximates a user-controllable variable defined by the initial target function list as context-related. Specifically, taint analysis may incorrectly classify a user- controllable variable when it is stored and loaded from a context-related variable. When taint analysis incorrectly marks a user-controllable variable, the verifier harness sanitizes crashes caused by this variable, leading to missing crashes in functions further down the call graph from that variable. Figure 6 shows an example where taint analysis incorrectly marks the user-controllable variable. buf is marked as a context-related variable due to the taint propagation from the context-related variable conn . However, bufis actually a user- controllable variable that is independent of the context conn . Since buf is mistakenly marked as context-related, MLC sanitizes crashes caused by buf, leading to a missed crash in the later execution. To overcome the challenges, MLC uses two methods: 1) patching indirect calls and 2) resolving taint inconsistencies. Patching indirect calls. MLC patches indirect calls to direct calls to make top-layer functions reach the target functions effectively. For each indirect call, MLC first identifies possible call targets. Then, MLC chooses functions that can lead to the target function based on the call graph. Finally, MLC patches the indirect call to direct calls to chosen functions. When there are multiple possible call targets, RTC ONalternates between them in a round-robin manner. Figure 7 shows an example of patching indirect calls. In the figure, the indirect calls described in dotted lines are patched to direct calls, as represented in red solid lines. Then, the top-layer function can effectively reach the target function through direct calls, without skipping any calls due to incorrect function pointers. 7

Target functionTop-layer function Target functionTop-layer functionDirect Call Indirect CallFunction in call graph Function not in call graphFig. 7: An example of patching indirect calls. Indirect calls (dotted lines) are patched to direct calls (red solid lines). Resolving taint inconsistencies. MLC resolves taint incon- sistencies by additionally fuzzing at the functions that have the inconsistencies. As explained earlier, these inconsistencies occur when taint analysis mistakenly marks a user-controllable variable as context-related. To address this, MLC fuzzes at the functions that have the inconsistencies, in addition to the top-layer functions. Then, MLC uses the fuzz results from these functions to classify the crashes. Specifically, even if the top-layer functions fail to detect the same crash, MLC classifies the crash as high confidence if the functions with the inconsistencies detect it. In this way, MLC can classify the crashes more accurately by considering the crashes detected from the inconsistent functions, which may have been missed from the top-layer functions.

## V. I MPLEMENTATION

We implemented RTC ON on the Clang/LLVM frame- work [50] with 6.7k lines of C/C++ and Python. Specifically, we implemented A NALYZER with 1.7k lines of C++ and 800 lines of Python, ACG with 3.4k lines of C/C++, and MLC with 600 lines of C/C++ and 200 lines of Python. To adapt RTC ONto RTOS projects, we wrote less than 100 lines of C code per project. We used libFuzzer [34] as the fuzz engine for our fuzzing harnesses. We used SVF [46] to construct call graphs in ANALYZER . To run our target RTOSes on our x86 64 eval- uation machine, we used POSIX wrappers [51], [52], [53], [54] provided by the RTOSes. In the rest of this section, we describe the implementation details of RTC ON. RTOS-specific input structures. Most RTOS functions that handle user input receive messages in RTOS-specific input structures, rather than raw bytes. These input structures are typically message buffers or network buffers that encapsulate the raw user data. For example, net_buf , one of the most commonly used network buffer structures in Zephyr, contains a raw user data pointer data , and its size size . To handle these input structures, we implemented simple adapter code, which is less than 25 lines of code per structure. The adapter code converts raw byte fuzzing input to these RTOS-specific input structures. Currently, RTC ONsupports the structures listed in Table II. We plan to support more structures in the future. Supporting additional input structures. RTC ONrequires the user to manually write adapter code to support additionalTABLE II: List of targets and structures used in the evaluation. RTOS Key Structures Kernel Subsystem Zephyr struct net_buf bdca41d0 Bluetooth bdca41d0 RIOT struct os_mbuf 687a30af Nimble 719bd3c4 FreeRTOS NetworkBufferDescriptor_t 59f1c570 FreeRTOS-Plus f940d75a ThreadX NX_PACKET 485a02fa NetXDuo 6c8e9d1c structures. However, the manual effort does not increase with the structure’s complexity, as users only need to map the fuzzing input and its length to the corresponding fields of the input structure (e.g., Figure 13 in Appendix). All remaining fields are automatically handled as context variables. Making a list of target functions. To make a list of target functions, we implemented a script to automatically extract functions that take user inputs. Specifically, we extracted 430 functions that take the RTOS-specific input structures as arguments. Additionally, we manually identified 65 functions that take raw user input bytes and added them to the list. The list also includes the argument indices of the user inputs, which RTC ONuses to generate harnesses. Catching and handling crashes. ACG uses a mechanism to catch and handle crashes that occur during fuzzing. Specif- ically, it uses setjmp andlongjmp to catch crashes from memory reference instructions and function calls. If a crash occurs, the program first jumps to the signal handler. Then, the handler restores the execution state to just before the memory reference or the function call. This allows ACG to catch the crash, take necessary actions (e.g., allocating memory), and continue fuzzing. Blacklisting functions. ACG patches code to skip func- tions that are registered on a blacklist. The blacklist includes functions that disrupt fuzzing, such as sleep andassert functions. These functions can halt fuzzing by pausing execu- tion or by causing kernel panics. To prevent these unwanted behaviors, ACG patches the functions to return immediately, allowing fuzzing to continue uninterrupted.

## VI. E VALUATION

In this section, we answer the following research questions: •RQ1. Can RTC ONfind bugs in real-world RTOSes?

## (§VI-A)

•RQ2. How effective is RTC ONcompared to existing function-level fuzzers? (§VI-B) •RQ3. How effective is RTC ONcompared to existing RTOS fuzzers? (§VI-C) •RQ4. How effective is RTC ONin classifying crashes?

## (§VI-D)

Experimental environment. We conducted all experiments on servers running Ubuntu 22.04, each equipped with two Intel Xeon Gold 6248R processors featuring 24 cores and 256 GB of RAM. For each fuzzing instance, we allocated one core and 4 GB of memory, running them for 24 hours five times as proposed by Klees et al. [55]. Targets. We evaluated RTC ONon four widely-used RTOSes: Zephyr [26], RIOT [27], FreeRTOS [28], and ThreadX [29] 8

TABLE III: Discovered bugs by RTC ON. No System Subsystem Status CVE Remote Context Detail 1 ZephyrBT AP Fixed CVE-2024-5931 ✔ No sanitization for num_subgroups field in parse_recv_state 2 BT SDP Fixed CVE-2024-6135 ✔ ✔ Mishandling of truncated packets in sdp_client_receive 3 BT SDP Fixed CVE-2024-6137 ✔ ✔ Missing check for the maximum number of filters in get_att_search_list 4 BT L2CAP Fixed ✔ ✔ Mishandling of truncated packets in l2cap_br_info_rsp 5 BT A VDTP Fixed CVE-2024-8798 ✔ ✔ Mishandling of truncated packets in bt_avdtp_l2cap_recv 6 BT ASCS Fixed CVE-2024-6442 ✔ Missing maximum ases bounds check in ascs_cp_rsp_add 7 BT RFCOMM Fixed CVE-2024-6258 ✔ ✔ Mishandling of truncated packets in rfcomm_handle_data 8 BT OTS Fixed CVE-2024-6444 ✔ Mishandling of truncated packets in olcp_ind_handler 9 BT HCI Fixed CVE-2024-6259 ✔ Mishandling multiple advertisements in bt_hci_le_adv_ext_report 10 BT HCI Reported ✔ Missing num bis validation in hci_le_big_complete 11 BT Shell Confirmed Missing nsig and nvnd check in bt_mesh_comp_p1_elem_pull 12 Utils Fixed CVE-2024-6443 Mishandling of null starting string in utf8_trunc 13 LoRaWAN Reported ✔ Missing rx pos bounds check in frag_transport_package_callback 14 LoRamac-node Reported ✔ Missing fragCounter bounds check in FragDecoderProcess 15 RIOTBT HCI Fixed ✔ ✔ Missing ad len bounds check in _on_scan_evt 16 BT HCI Confirmed ✔ Mishandling of truncated packets in _filter_uuid 17 BT HCI Reported ✔ Mishandling multiple advertisements in ble_hs_hci_evt_le_ext_adv_rpt 18 BT HCI Reported ✔ Missing adv handle validation in ble_hs_hci_evt_le_adv_set_terminated 19 BT HCI Fixed CVE-2024-51569 Access header before length check in ble_hs_hci_evt_num_completed_pkts 20 LoRaWAN Fixed ✔ ✔ Missing header length check in gnrc_lorawan_mic_is_valid 21 DHCP Client Fixed CVE-2024-52802 ✔ Mishandling of truncated packets in _parse_advertise 22 COAP Duplicated CVE-2021-41040 Use vulnerable version of 3rd party library 23 FreeRTOS DNS Duplicated CVE-2024-38373 ✔ ✔ Missing domain length validation in DNS_ParseDNSReply 24 ThreadXSNMPv3 Fixed CVE-2025-55087 ✔ ✔ Mishandling of truncated packets in _nx_snmp_version_3_process 25 HTTP Fixed CVE-2025-55085 ✔ ✔ Mishandling of truncated packets in _nx_web_http_client_process_header_fields 26 DHCPv6 Fixed CVE-2025-55086 ✔ ✔ Mishandling of truncated packets in _nx_dhcpv6_process_server_duid 27 DHCPv6 Confirmed ✔ ✔ Missing malicious label length check in _nx_dhcpv6_name_string_unencode along with their respective subsystems. However, due to the large size of RTOSes, we could not evaluate RTC ONon all subsystems. Instead, we evaluated RTC ONon one of the most representative subsystems for each RTOS: Bluetooth and net- work stacks. Table II shows the specific versions of the RTOS kernels and subsystems used in our experiments. Notably, we also tested Nimble [3] and NetXDuo [30], which are the external libraries for RIOT and ThreadX, respectively. These libraries implement the Bluetooth and network stacks for RIOT and ThreadX. For FreeRTOS, we tested the network stack libraries implemented in FreeRTOS-Plus [4]. Specifically, we tested the TCP/UDP protocols along with their upper layers. While we could not evaluate RTC ONon all subsystems, we strongly believe that RTC ONcan be extended to other subsystems with minimal effort. Specifically, we can extend RTC ONto other subsystems by simply adding target functions to the list of functions to fuzz, and specifying the input format of the target functions. Furthermore, we can even extend RTC ONto other targets, such as general libraries, as we show the details in §VII-C. Analysis time. We detail the average analysis time of ANALYZER and ACG for each project in Table X in the Appendix. The analysis time generally scales with the size of the target RTOS codebase and the complexity of the target function. On average, it takes about 10 minutes to analyze the kernel call graph, with an additional 140% time required for taint analysis and ACG. Notably, both A NALYZER and ACG need to be executed only once per harness. A. Effectiveness of Finding New Bugs To evaluate the effectiveness of RTC ONin finding bugs in real-world RTOSes, we conducted a 24-hour fuzzing campaign on our target RTOSes. As a result, RTC ONfound a total of 27 bugs across 4 RTOSes, with 25 previously unknown bugs.Table III provides detailed information on the bugs found by RTC ON. Specifically, RTC ONfound 14 bugs in Zephyr, 8 in RIOT, 1 in FreeRTOS, and 4 in ThreadX. We reported all the bugs to the respective maintainers. They confirmed and fixed 20 of them with 14 CVEs assigned. Among the bugs found by RTC ON, we manually confirmed that 20 bugs are reachable by remote attackers. In other words, attackers can send malicious packets to trigger these vulnera- bilities, leading to potential remote code execution. This result demonstrates the effectiveness of RTC ONin finding new bugs in real-world RTOSes and their security impacts. RTC ONcould achieve these successful results thanks to its support for adaptive context generation. As shown in Table III, we found that 15 bugs required specific contexts to reach the vulnerable code. For example, CVE-2024-6135 in Zephyr, found in the Bluetooth Service Discovery Protocol (SDP), requires valid contexts for both a Logical Link Control and Adaptation Protocol (L2CAP) channel and an SDP channel to trigger. RTC ONcan find this bug by generating the necessary contexts without manually constructing these channels. We present additional detailed case studies in §A of Appendix to demonstrate the effectiveness of RTC ONin finding bugs in RTOS kernels with specific contexts. B. Comparison with Function-Level Fuzzers In this section, we compare the effectiveness of RTC ONin testing RTOS kernels with function-level fuzzers. In particular, we compare RTC ONwith FuzzSlice [23], a state-of-the-art function-level harness generator, and FuzzGen [20], an API harness generator originally targeting AOSP libraries. We evaluated them to demonstrate the effectiveness of RTC ON in comparison to existing function-level fuzzers, even though they are not designed for testing RTOSes. There are also other tools such as FUDGE [21] and AFGen [22], but we could not 9

/uni00000013/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni0000004b /uni00000017/uni0000004b /uni00000019/uni0000004b /uni0000001b/uni0000004b/uni00000014/uni00000013/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni00000015/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni00000017/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni00000019/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni0000001b/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni00000013/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni00000015/uni0000004b 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 /uni00000035/uni00000037/uni00000026/uni00000052/uni00000051 /uni00000029/uni00000058/uni0000005d/uni0000005d/uni00000036/uni0000004f/uni0000004c/uni00000046/uni00000048/uni00000030/uni00000044/uni00000051/uni00000058/uni00000044/uni0000004f /uni00000029/uni00000058/uni0000005d/uni0000005d/uni0000002a/uni00000048/uni00000051/uni00000035/uni00000037/uni00000026/uni00000052/uni00000051/uni00000010 /uni00000013/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000015/uni00000011/uni00000018/uni00000018/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni0000001a/uni00000011/uni00000018/uni00000014/uni00000013/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000015/uni00000011/uni00000018/uni00000014/uni00000018/uni00000011/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni0000001a/uni00000011/uni00000018 /uni00000013/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni0000004b /uni00000017/uni0000004b /uni00000019/uni0000004b /uni0000001b/uni0000004b/uni00000014/uni00000013/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni00000015/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni00000017/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni00000019/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni0000001b/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni00000013/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni00000015/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni00000017/uni0000004b/uni00000013/uni00000015/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000017/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000019/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni0000001b/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000015/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000035/uni0000002c/uni00000032/uni00000037 /uni00000035/uni00000037/uni00000026/uni00000052/uni00000051 /uni00000029/uni00000058/uni0000005d/uni0000005d/uni00000036/uni0000004f/uni0000004c/uni00000046/uni00000048/uni00000030/uni00000044/uni00000051/uni00000058/uni00000044/uni0000004f /uni00000029/uni00000058/uni0000005d/uni0000005d/uni0000002a/uni00000048/uni00000051/uni00000035/uni00000037/uni00000026/uni00000052/uni00000051/uni00000010 /uni00000013/uni00000018/uni00000014/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000018/uni00000015/uni00000013/uni00000015/uni00000018/uni00000016/uni00000013 /uni00000013/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni0000004b /uni00000017/uni0000004b /uni00000019/uni0000004b /uni0000001b/uni0000004b/uni00000014/uni00000013/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni00000015/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni00000017/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni00000019/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni0000001b/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni00000013/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni00000015/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni00000017/uni0000004b/uni00000013/uni00000015/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000017/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000019/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni0000001b/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000015/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000029/uni00000055/uni00000048/uni00000048/uni00000035/uni00000037/uni00000032/uni00000036 /uni00000035/uni00000037/uni00000026/uni00000052/uni00000051 /uni00000029/uni00000058/uni0000005d/uni0000005d/uni00000036/uni0000004f/uni0000004c/uni00000046/uni00000048/uni00000030/uni00000044/uni00000051/uni00000058/uni00000044/uni0000004f /uni00000029/uni00000058/uni0000005d/uni0000005d/uni0000002a/uni00000048/uni00000051/uni00000035/uni00000037/uni00000026/uni00000052/uni00000051/uni00000010 /uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000013/uni00000015/uni00000013/uni00000016/uni00000013/uni00000017/uni00000013 /uni00000013/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni0000004b /uni00000017/uni0000004b /uni00000019/uni0000004b /uni0000001b/uni0000004b/uni00000014/uni00000013/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni00000015/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni00000017/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni00000019/uni0000004b /uni00000014/uni0000001b/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni00000013/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni00000015/uni0000004b /uni00000015/uni00000017/uni0000004b/uni00000013/uni00000015/uni00000018/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000018/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni0000001a/uni00000018/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000015/uni00000018/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000018/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni0000001a/uni00000018/uni00000013/uni00000013/uni00000037/uni0000004b/uni00000055/uni00000048/uni00000044/uni00000047/uni0000003b /uni00000035/uni00000037/uni00000026/uni00000052/uni00000051 /uni00000029/uni00000058/uni0000005d/uni0000005d/uni00000036/uni0000004f/uni0000004c/uni00000046/uni00000048/uni00000030/uni00000044/uni00000051/uni00000058/uni00000044/uni0000004f /uni00000029/uni00000058/uni0000005d/uni0000005d/uni0000002a/uni00000048/uni00000051/uni00000035/uni00000037/uni00000026/uni00000052/uni00000051/uni00000010 /uni00000013/uni00000018/uni00000014/uni00000013/uni00000014/uni00000018/uni00000015/uni00000013/uni00000015/uni00000018/uni00000016/uni00000013/uni00000016/uni00000018 /uni0000002f/uni0000004c/uni00000051/uni00000048/uni00000003/uni00000046/uni00000052/uni00000059/uni00000048/uni00000055/uni00000044/uni0000004a/uni00000048/uni00000003/uni0000000b/uni00000008/uni0000000cFig. 8: Line coverage measured in four RTOSes: Zephyr, RIOT, FreeRTOS, and ThreadX. evaluate them since they are not publicly available. Instead, we also compared RTC ONwith manually crafted harnesses for the target functions. Unlike RTC ON and FuzzSlice, FuzzGen requires con- sumers , which are the applications that use the target function. FuzzGen analyzes these applications to find the usages of the target function and generate harnesses. In this evaluation, we provided sample and test code from each RTOS project as consumers for FuzzGen. Figure 8 depicts the graphs of line coverage achieved by RTC ON, our manual harnesses, RTC ON−(for ablation study), FuzzSlice, and FuzzGen in four RTOS kernels. More detailed results are provided in Table VIII of Appendix. The table includes the average line coverage, as well as Mann-Whitney U test results [55] to determine the statistical significance between RTC ONand the other fuzzers. Comparison with FuzzSlice and FuzzGen. Figure 8 shows the line coverage that RTC ONand the harnesses generated by FuzzSlice and FuzzGen achieved. To summarize, RTC ON achieved significantly higher coverage than both FuzzSlice and FuzzGen across all RTOS kernels. This is because the gener- ated harnesses struggled with unintended crashes, primarily caused by uninitialized kernel subsystems and incomplete inference of data structures. Furthermore, as function argu- ments become more complex, the fuzzing input space grows exponentially, making it unlikely to create interesting inputs. In the case of FuzzGen, while it successfully caught the functions used in subsystem initialization, there were limitations in identifying callback functions that are not explicitly invoked. However, RTC ONcould bypass the inference of complex structures and API specifications through its adaptive context generation. This allowed RTC ONto achieve high coverage while avoiding early termination of the harnesses. Comparison with manual harnesses. To evaluate the ef- fectiveness of RTC ONin generating contexts, we compared RTC ONagainst our manual harnesses. We built these manual harnesses by analyzing the API usage of the kernel and subsystems, mostly referring to sample and test code. As a result, we built harnesses for each RTOS, initializing the kernel and creating temporary contexts, such as Bluetooth connection, before testing the target functions. In particular, we used the Bumble [56] Bluetooth emulator to establish a mockup Bluetooth connection. Figure 8 shows the coverage results of RTC ONand manual harnesses. The results show that RTC ONachieved similar orhigher coverage than manual harnesses for FreeRTOS and ThreadX. However, in the case of Zephyr and RIOT, RTC ON recorded about 1%p lower coverage. This small difference comes from manual harnesses gaining coverage by executing kernel-specific functions like scheduling and multi-threading, which are skipped by RTC ON. While both RTC ONand manual harnesses can achieve high coverage in function-level fuzzing, RTC ONremoves the need for the manual effort required to construct context, enhancing scalability. Ablation study. To evaluate the effectiveness of adaptive con- text generation, we conducted an ablation study. For this, we implemented RTC ON−, which disables the adaptive context generation. Figure 8 shows the coverage results of RTC ON and RTC ON−. The results show that RTC ONachieved 7%p, 8%p, 16%p, and 5%p higher coverage than RTC ON−for Zephyr, RIOT, FreeRTOS, and ThreadX, respectively. This indicates that the generated contexts are crucial in exploring the target functions. Notably, RTC ONoutperforms RTC ON− more significantly in FreeRTOS. This is because a consider- able number of tested functions in FreeRTOS validate input arguments at the beginning of the function using assert , preventing RTC ON−from exploring the functions further. However, RTC ONcan bypass them by adaptively setting up necessary conditions. Bug findings. We evaluated our manual harnesses, RTC ON−, FuzzSlice, and FuzzGen to see if they can detect new bugs discovered by RTC ON. Table IV shows the result. Out of the 27 bugs, our manual harnesses and RTC ON−could detect 20 and 13 bugs, respectively. In contrast, FuzzSlice and FuzzGen either failed to generate harnesses or did not detect any bugs. This is because most of the harnesses generated by FuzzSlice and FuzzGen terminated prematurely due to unin- tended crashes from the incorrect inference of data structures. Specifically, the incomplete analysis of complex structures led to incorrect values being populated within both context and input structures. As a result, most harnesses crashed upon attempting to reference invalid pointers within these structures. However, given that FuzzSlice and FuzzGen are not designed for testing RTOS kernels, this does not imply they are generally ineffective. RTC ON−was able to find relatively shallow bugs, but could not find deeper bugs. For example, in the case of CVE-2024- 6444 (Bug #8), RTC ON−was able to find this bug because there were no references to context variables before reaching the vulnerable code. However, it could not find most bugs that 10

TABLE IV: Bug finding capability of RTC ONcompared to other function-level fuzzers. The table shows that FuzzSlice and FuzzGen could not detect any bugs. However, note that these fuzzers are not designed for testing RTOSes. System Zephyr RIOT FreeRTOS ThreadX Bug ID 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27

## RTC ON ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔

Manual ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - - - - ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ - ✗ ✗ ✔ ✔ ✔

## RTC ON−✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✔ ✗ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✗ ✔ ✔ ✗ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✗ ✗ ✔ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✔ ✔ ✔

FuzzSlice - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ FuzzGen ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ -: The harness could not be generated. TABLE V: Comparison of RTC ONwith RTOS fuzzers. RTOS RTC ON(E/C/B) HOEDUR (E/C/B) SFuzz (E/C/B) Zephyr 7,336 / 288 / 10 3,144 / 99 / 1 256 / 64 / 4

## RIOT 2,536 / 69 / 6 803 / 87 / 1 216 / 20 / 0

FreeRTOS 2,403 / 37 / 1 947 / 84 / 0 30 / 8 / 0 ThreadX 3,972 / 101 / 3 680 / 105 / 0 130 / 20 / 0 Total 16,247 / 495 / 20 5,574 / 375 / 2 632 / 112 / 4 E: # of edges covered. / C: # of unique crashes. / B: # of identified bugs. require specific contexts. Manual harnesses were able to find a substantial number of bugs; however, they require significant manual effort to construct the necessary contexts. For some subsystems (e.g., Bluetooth Mesh and LoRaWAN), we could not configure the harnesses, so they were excluded from the comparison. C. Comparison to state-of-the-art RTOS fuzzers Experimental setup. To see how effective RTC ONis in testing RTOS kernels compared to existing RTOS fuzzers, we evaluate RTC ONwith SFuzz [12], a state-of-the-art sliced- based RTOS fuzzer, and HOEDUR [14], a multi-stream input- based firmware fuzzer. As SFuzz only supports the binaries compiled for ARM and MIPS architectures, we compiled the RTOS kernels for ARM architecture with the same configu- rations as in previous experiments. Additionally, we manually included source and sink functions for each RTOS, which SFuzz uses to find vulnerable paths in the target binaries. Result. Table V shows a comparison result of the number of covered edges, unique crashes found, and identified bugs. RTC ONexplores significantly more edges and discovers more crashes than both HOEDUR and SFuzz. HOEDUR, which ba- sically adopts a firmware fuzzing approach, provides inputs to the emulated RTOS kernel via hardware registers (e.g., MMIO registers) to fuzz the interrupt handler. However, similar to API fuzzers, it has limitations in exploring the functions that require specific contexts. For instance, while HOEDUR may successfully invoke the Bluetooth HCI command handler, it cannot reach upper-layer handlers (e.g., Bluetooth SMP) due to the absence of necessary connection information. Compared to RTC ONand HOEDUR, SFuzz achieves lower coverage, primarily due to two main reasons. First, SFuzz slices code snippets and prunes the unnecessary paths by patching the code. They skip calls and modify branches to fixed jumps, which results in fewer edges being explored. Second, SFuzz limits fuzz testing to potentially vulnerableTABLE VI: Multi-layer classification results of detected crashes. Specifically, 15 bugs were identified as high- confidence through taint inconsistency resolution. V Total High Low Unverifiable Zephyr 3.6 64/ 258 (24.8%) 52 (15) / 57 (91.2%) 6/ 195 (3.1%) 6/ 6 (100.0%)

## RIOT 1.2 33/ 39 (84.6%) 20/ 20 (100.0%) 0/ 4 (0%) 13/ 15 (86.7%)

FreeRTOS 1.1 11/ 35 (31.4%) 0/ 1 (0%) 11/ 30 (36.7%) 0/ 4 (0%) ThreadX 1.6 7/ 111 (6.3%) 4/ 4 (100.0%) 2/ 100 (2.0%) 1/ 7 (14.3%) Total 1.9 115/ 443 (26.0%) 76 (15) / 82 (92.7%) 19/ 329 (5.8%) 20/ 32 (62.5%) V: Average number of verifier harnesses created per target function. paths between source and sink functions, meaning it cannot explore edges outside these paths. For example, in the case of FreeRTOS, SFuzz only found two potential vulnerable paths, since FreeRTOS performs direct memory operation rather than using the vulnerable sink functions (e.g., memcpy ). It is worth noting that SFuzz and HOEDUR are designed for different purposes; SFuzz primarily targets user applications running on RTOSes (e.g., COTS router, printer firmware), while RTC ONtargets RTOS kernels themselves. HOEDUR, on the other hand, focuses on fuzzing through external periph- eral inputs, which contrasts with our function-level fuzzing approach. Due to these differences, we cannot claim that RTC ONcan replace SFuzz or HOEDUR. However, this eval- uation demonstrates that an approach like RTC ON— applying function-level fuzzing to RTOS — has unique advantages in testing deep RTOS kernel code compared to existing RTOS fuzzers. D. Effectiveness of Multi-layer Classification In this section, we evaluate the effectiveness of RTC ONin classifying the crashes. For each target function, we ran both the verifier and target harnesses for a total of 24 hours. Result. Table VI shows the result of the multi-layer classifi- cation. The table shows the following: 1) the average number of verifier harnesses created per target function, 2) the total number of unique crashes detected by a target harness, and 3) the number of crashes at each confidence level, as classified by RTC ON. Bold numbers represent unique valid crashes, which are manually confirmed. As a result, RTC ONconstructed an average of 1.9 verifier harnesses for each target function. With these verifier har- nesses, RTC ONdetected a total of 443 unique crashes with 115 valid crashes. Specifically, RTC ONdetected 258, 39, 35, and 111 unique crashes at target functions from Zephyr, RIOT, FreeRTOS, and ThreadX, respectively. Among them, we found 11

that 64, 33, 11, and 7 crashes are valid. Through the multi- layer classification, RTC ONclassified 52, 20 and 4 crashes as high-confidence bugs, achieving precision of 91.2%, 100.0% and 100.0% in Zephyr, RIOT and ThreadX. However, RTC ON could not find high-confidence bugs in FreeRTOS. A total of 32 crashes could not be verified due to the absence of verifier harnesses, of which 20 were valid crashes. Specifically, 15 bugs were identified as high-confidence through taint inconsistency resolution. This typically occurs when user input is stored in a context variable and later copied from it (as described in Figure 6). Since RTC ONdetects such mis-taints and reports them from the highest possible layer of the call graph, it can effectively validate these bugs. In the following, we present false positives and underclas- sified bugs. For more comprehensive analysis, we also further evaluate RTC ONon previously known bugs (see §C). False positives. Even when crashes are reproduced from top-layer functions, RTC ONmay report false positives for two reasons. First, false positives can occur in functions that receive user inputs assumed to be trusted. For example, among the five false positives detected in Zephyr, three were in a function that handles messages from the local Bluetooth host. Although we reported these crashes to the maintainers, they did not consider them bugs, as the inputs are assumed to be trusted and well-formed. Second, incomplete taint propagation caused by double-pointer variables can also lead to false positives. Specifically, RTC ONcurrently does not handle taint propagation through indirect memory access using double pointers. This can make RTC ONmiss sanitizing invalid crashes and result in false positives. In our result, two other false positives in Zephyr are caused by this reason. Underclassified bugs. While RTC ONcould classify a fair amount of actual bugs as high confidence, it still missed some bugs. This is because verifier harnesses could not reach certain functions due to road-blocking routines, such as checksum validation. §B provides detailed examples of such routines observed in Zephyr and FreeRTOS. In our result, all 11 crashes in FreeRTOS were located in DNS packet processing functions. To verify these bugs, RTC ONattempted to generate valid messages starting from the top-layer Ethernet frame handler. However, due to checksum validation in each protocol layer, RTC ONcould not generate inputs that could pass the checksum within the limited time frame. Instead, RTC ONreported the crashes were reproduced from middle- layer handlers, like UDP packet processing functions. This issue paradoxically highlights the need for direct fuzzing at the low-layer function. As shown in the results, fuzzing from the top-layer function (e.g., API and main) does not ensure reaching the functions that are deeply located in the program. Thus, this would lead the fuzzer to miss potential bugs in these functions, resulting in false negatives. In contrast, RTC ONaddresses this limitation by directly fuzzing the low- layer functions, effectively detecting bugs that other fuzzers may miss.VII. D ISCUSSION A. Imprecise Pointer Analysis When fuzzing at top-layer functions, RTC ONforcibly traces indirect calls in the call graph. However, this can result in unwanted crashes. As mentioned in §IV-B, this is mainly due to the flow-insensitive nature of our analysis, which RTC ONuses to trace indirect calls at corresponding call sites. While some previous works [57], [58] proposed flow-sensitive pointer analysis to improve precision, RTC ONcurrently adopts flow-insensitive pointer analysis due to the high complexity of such analysis. While this simplifies our process, it may reduce the fuzzing efficiency of the verifier harnesses. To address this, RTC ON offers additional hooking points that allow a user to validate the legitimacy of an indirect call at call sites. Once a hook function is registered, RTC ONexecutes it before invoking an indirect call to perform user-defined validity checks. We note that this approach is unlikely to cause false posi- tives. Crashes caused by imprecise pointer analysis typically originate from context variables or occur at random code locations. However, RTC ONfilters out such cases by sanitizing context-related crashes and comparing the call stacks between the verifier and target harnesses. B. False Positives & False Negatives Unlike classical fuzzing, RTC ONcan detect more vulner- abilities as it needs fewer constraints to satisfy (see §VI-A). This is because RTC ONcan begin fuzzing directly from a function without any context. However, as RTC ONis fun- damentally based on fuzzing, it inherits the limitations of fuzzing. Moreover, to enable function-level fuzzing, RTC ON also introduces several trade-offs that result in both false positives and false negatives. Infeasible Contexts & Inputs. As RTC ONconstructs con- texts and inputs arbitrarily without checking their feasibility, it may report false positives. For example, RTC ONmay infer that two context variables differ even when they are, in fact, aliases. Although RTC ONdoes not directly report crashes caused by such invalid context variables, it may still report false crashes along paths that appear reachable only because of these infeasible contexts. This also happens to an input if it is incorrectly assumed to be fully controllable (see §VI-D). Uninitialized Context Variables. RTC ONalso cannot detect bugs caused by uninitialized context variables. This is because RTC ONassumes that all context variables are properly initial- ized. This assumption enables RTC ONto perform function- level fuzzing without any contexts, but it can also suppress genuine failures, leading to false negatives. Over-tainting. Over-tainting from the context variables can mask real bugs (see §IV-B2), leading to false negatives. RTC ONadopts this conservative approach to suppress crashes caused by context variables. As a result, bugs that depend on both input values and context variables (e.g., arithmetic operations involving both) may be missed. 12

Uninstrumented Code. Because RTC ON detects only crashes within instrumented code, it may miss bugs in unin- strumented code (e.g., linked libraries). To detect these bugs, we need to include target libraries in its analysis. Limited Implementation. We also observed that RTC ON may cause false positives due to its limited implementation. As discussed in §VI-D, the current prototype of RTC ONdoes not yet handle taint propagation for double-pointer variables. In such cases, RTC ONmisses to sanitize crashes caused by invalid context variables, which can lead to false positives. C. Effectiveness of Finding Bugs in General Libraries Experimental setup. While RTC ONprimarily targets RTOS kernels, it can be easily extended to general-purpose libraries. To see the applicability of RTC ONto general libraries, we evaluated whether RTC ONcould detect previously known vulnerabilities in seven general libraries. The target libraries and vulnerabilities were selected based on those discovered by AFGen, the state-of-the-art function-level fuzzer. Since the source code of AFGen is not publicly available, we could not fully reproduce the results of AFGen. However, as AFGen provided the generated harnesses for the discovered vulnerabilities, we could run the harnesses to reproduce the results. Also, we could infer the vulnerable versions of the libraries using the publicly disclosed CVE information and the harness code. Result. RTC ONwas able to detect 24 out of 26 bugs across seven libraries (details in Table IX of Appendix). In particular, CVE-2022-30858 of ngiflib , a buffer overflow vulnerabil- ity when processing the file contents, could be detected by RTC ONby adding a simple hook of fewer than five lines of code. Similarly to what AFGen does, this hook redirects the fuzzing input as file content to the target function. Of the two undetected bugs, CVE-2022-34526 in libtiff was not reproduced by either AFGen or RTC ON. The other, CVE-2023-23054 in libming , RTC ONcould not detect it because it is an infinite loop vulnerability that RTC ONis not designed to detect. Before reaching the timeout required to detect the bug, RTC ONreaches the maximum limit on the number of times context generation hooks can be invoked, which is designed to prevent performance degradation caused by infinite loops resulting from generated contexts. D. Challenges on Function Level Fuzzing RTOS Kernels Applying function-level fuzzing to RTOS kernels poses its own unique challenges compared to fuzzing general-purpose libraries. We demonstrate their challenges by evaluating two existing tools, FuzzGen [20] for API fuzzing and Angr [59] for under-constrained symbolic execution. Our evaluation shows two challenges in applying them to RTOS kernels. Lack of Exposed APIs. RTOS kernels lack exposed APIs to construct necessary contexts for fuzzing target functions. In practice, most harnesses produced by FuzzGen were limited to externally visible kernel initialization calls (e.g., bt_enable ). Therefore, they could not construct specialized contexts re- quired by the targets (e.g., LoRaWAN stacks or RFCOMM sessionsin Figure 9 and Figure 10). This contrasts with general-purpose libraries, which commonly provide explicit context-building APIs (e.g., EVP_EncryptInit in OpenSSL [60]). Difficulty in Constructing Complex Contexts. Constructing complex contexts accurately is fundamentally challenging for both function-level fuzzers and symbolic executors. RTOS ker- nels contain deeply nested data structures and rely heavily on indirect calls, which both of them leave many of the constraints needed to reach target functions unresolved. According to our analysis, symbolic execution failed to propagate constraints along the call paths into the target, and indirect calls (e.g., dev->driver->set in Figure 9) remained unresolved, caus- ing early termination of analysis.

## VIII. R ELATED WORK

Real-Time OS Fuzzing. Despite extensive research [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [41], [61], [62] focused on security analysis of embedded devices, a few [12], [63], [13], [14] works specifically targeted RTOS kernel and the applications running on them. Li et al. [63] abstracts the HAL functions to rehost MCU firmware based on RTOS, while HOEDUR [14] proposes firmware-aware fuzzing with a multi-stream input representation. SFuzz [12] slices code snippets from the call graph and emulates small portions of the binary to perform micro-fuzzing. Rtkaller [13] applies task-based fuzzing to rt- Linux, but it is closely related to Linux kernel fuzzing. While most of these works show their effectiveness in identifying bugs, they require engineering effort to rehost the firmware or emulate the part of the system. In contrast, RTC ONtests RTOS kernels without actual devices or emulation with function-level fuzzing and adaptive context generation. Automatic Harness Generation. Instead of dynamically generating contexts, previous works [20], [21], [64], [65], [23] have focused on statically generating contexts to reach deep internal states. FuzzGen [20] builds fuzz drivers for the target libraries by inferring their interfaces and analyzing API dependency graphs. Similarly, FUDGE [21] builds fuzz drivers by analyzing the usage patterns of the target libraries. GraphFuzz [64] models sequences of executed functions as a dataflow graph to test low-level library APIs, while AP- ICraft [65] builds fuzz drivers by collecting control and data dependencies for API functions and combining these dependencies. These approaches leverage existing codebases to build API fuzz drivers. While they can construct legitimate contexts based on APIs, they struggle to generate contexts for fuzzing arbitrary functions. Recent works [23], [22], [25] build fuzz drivers using static analysis. Specifically, FuzzSlice [23] builds fuzz drivers by creating small, compilable code slices at the function level. AFGen [22] takes a bottom-up approach, building fuzz drivers that target internal functions while collecting constraints from call sites. Similarly, Griller [25] performs symbolic execu- tion to extract constraints from the parent functions. These approaches have demonstrated effectiveness in finding bugs. However, unlike RTC ON, they heavily rely on static analysis 13

to reduce false positives and struggle to populate context structures for complex kernel objects.

## IX. C ONCLUSION

In this paper, we presented RTC ON, a context-adaptive function-level fuzzer for RTOS kernels. RTC ONperforms function-level fuzzing on any target functions within the RTOS kernel without any given function contexts. To achieve this, RTC ONadaptively generates the necessary contexts on demand while fuzzing target functions. Additionally, RTC ON uses Multi-layer Classification to classify crashes based on confidence, allowing security analysts to focus on high- confidence crashes. We implemented the prototype of RTC ON and evaluated it on four popular RTOS kernels: Zephyr, RIOT, FreeRTOS, and ThreadX. As a result, RTC ONdiscovered 27 bugs, with 25 previously unknown bugs, including 14 CVE ID issued. RTC ONalso demonstrated its effectiveness in crash classification, achieving an 92.7% precision for high- confidence crashes, compared to a 5.8% precision for low- confidence crashes.

## ACKNOWLEDGMENT

We thank the anonymous reviewers and shepherd for provid- ing valuable feedback. This work was supported by Institute for Information & communications Technology Planning & Evaluation (IITP) grant funded by the Korea government

## (MSIT) (RS-2024-00331961).

## REFERENCES

[1] Z. Project, “Zephyr project documentation - bluetooth,” https: //docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/connectivity/bluetooth/index.html, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [2] ——, “Zephyr project documentation - ethernet,” https://docs. zephyrproject.org/latest/connectivity/networking/api/ethernet.html, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [3] A. Mynewt, “Ble user guide - apache mynewt latest documentation,” https://mynewt.apache.org/latest/network/, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [4] FreeRTOS™, “Freertos plus libraries,” https://www.freertos.org/ Documentation/03-Libraries/02-FreeRTOS-plus/01-Introduction, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [5] A. Abbasi, J. Wetzels, T. Holz, and S. Etalle, “Challenges in designing exploit mitigations for deeply embedded systems,” in Proceedings of the 4th European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P) , Stockholm, Sweden, Jun. 2019. [6] B. Seri, G. Vishnepolsky, and D. Zusman, “Critical vulnerabilities to remotely compromise vxworks, the most popular rtos,” White Paper,

## ARMIS, URGENT/11 , 2019.

[7] D. D. Chen, M. Woo, D. Brumley, and M. Egele, “Towards automated dynamic analysis for linux-based embedded firmware.” in Proceedings of the 2016 Annual Network and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS) , San Diego, CA, Feb. 2016. [8] M. Kim, D. Kim, E. Kim, S. Kim, Y . Jang, and Y . Kim, “Firmae: Towards large-scale emulation of iot firmware for dynamic analysis,” in Proceedings of the Annual Computer Security Applications Conference (ACSAC) , Dec. 2020. [9] I. Angelakopoulos, G. Stringhini, and M. Egele, “Firmsolo: Enabling dynamic analysis of binary linux-based iot kernel modules,” in Pro- ceedings of the 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (Security) , Anaheim, CA, Aug. 2023. [10] Y . Zheng, A. Davanian, H. Yin, C. Song, H. Zhu, and L. Sun, “Firm- afl:high-throughput greybox fuzzing of iot firmware via augmented pro- cess emulation,” in Proceedings of the 28th USENIX Security Symposium (Security) , Santa Clara, CA, Aug. 2019.[11] A. A. Clements, E. Gustafson, T. Scharnowski, P. Grosen, D. Fritz, C. Kruegel, G. Vigna, S. Bagchi, and M. Payer, “Halucinator: Firmware re-hosting through abstraction layer emulation,” in Proceedings of the 29th USENIX Security Symposium (Security) , Boston, MA, Aug. 2020. [12] L. Chen, Q. Cai, Z. Ma, Y . Wang, H. Hu, M. Shen, Y . Liu, S. Guo, H. Duan, K. Jiang, and Z. Xue, “Sfuzz: Slice-based fuzzing for real- time operating systems,” in Proceedings of the 29th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS) , Los Angeles, CA, Nov. 2022. [13] Y . Shen, H. Sun, Y . Jiang, H. Shi, Y . Yang, and W. Chang, “Rtkaller: State-aware task generation for rtos fuzzing,” vol. 20, no. 5, Apr. 2021. [14] T. Scharnowski, S. W ¨orner, F. Buchmann, N. Bars, M. Schloegel, and T. Holz, “Hoedur: Embedded firmware fuzzing using multi-stream inputs.” in Proceedings of the 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (Se- curity) , Anaheim, CA, Aug. 2023. [15] A. Mera, C. Liu, R. Sun, E. Kirda, and L. Lu, “Shift: Semi-hosted fuzz testing for embedded applications,” in Proceedings of the 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (Security) , Philadelphia, PA, Aug. 2024. [16] M. E. Garbelini, V . Bedi, S. Chattopadhyay, S. Sun, and E. Kurniawan, “Braktooth: Causing havoc on bluetooth link manager via directed fuzzing,” in Proceedings of the 31st USENIX Security Symposium (Security) , Boston, MA, Aug. 2022. [17] D. Heinze, J. Classen, and M. Hollick, “Toothpicker: Apple picking in the ios bluetooth stack,” in Proceedings of the 14th USENIX Workshop on Offensive Technologies (WOOT) , Boston, MA, Aug. 2020. [18] H. Park, C. K. Nkuba, S. Woo, and H. Lee, “L2fuzz: Discovering blue- tooth l2cap vulnerabilities using stateful fuzz testing,” in Proceedings of the International Conference on Dependable Systems and Networks (DSN) , Jun. 2019. [19] J. Jang, M. Kang, and D. Song, “Reusb: Replay-guided usb driver fuzzing.” in Proceedings of the 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (Security) , Anaheim, CA, Aug. 2023. [20] K. Ispoglou, D. Austin, V . Mohan, and M. Payer, “Fuzzgen: Automatic fuzzer generation,” in Proceedings of the 29th USENIX Security Sym- posium (Security) , Boston, MA, Aug. 2020. [21] D. Babi ´c, S. Bucur, Y . Chen, F. Ivan ˇci´c, T. King, M. Kusano, C. Lemieux, L. Szekeres, and W. Wang, “Fudge: fuzz driver generation at scale,” in Proceedings of the 24th European Software Engineering Conference (ESEC) / 27th ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on the Founda- tions of Software Engineering (FSE) , Tallinn, Estonia, Aug. 2019. [22] Y . Liu, Y . Wang, X. Jia, Z. Zhang, and P. Su, “Afgen: Whole-function fuzzing for applications and libraries,” in Proceedings of the 45th IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (Oakland) , San Francisco, CA, May 2024. [23] A. Murali, N. Mathews, M. Alfadel, M. Nagappan, and M. Xu, “Fuzzs- lice: Pruning false positives in static analysis warnings through function- level fuzzing,” in Proceedings of the 46th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) , Lisbon, Portugal, Apr. 2024. [24] F. Peng, Z. Deng, X. Zhang, D. Xu, Z. Lin, and Z. Su, “X-Force:Force- Executing binary programs for security applications,” in Proceedings of the 23rd USENIX Security Symposium (Security) , San Diego, CA, Aug. 2014. [25] S. Muralee, J. Srinivasan, A. Pillai, A. Bianchi, A. Machiry, G. Vigna, and C. Kruegel, “Griller - a framework for under constrained fuzzing,” 2022, accessed: 2025-12-15. [26] Z. Project, “Zephyr project,” https://www.zephyrproject.org, 2025, ac- cessed: 2025-12-15. [27] E. Baccelli, O. Hahm, M. G ¨unes, M. W ¨ahlisch, and T. C. Schmidt, “Riot os: Towards an os for the internet of things,” in 2013 IEEE conference on computer communications workshops (INFOCOM WKSHPS) . IEEE, 2013, pp. 79–80. [28] FreeRTOS™, “Freertos™ - real-time operating system for microcon- trollers and small microprocessors,” https://www.freertos.org/, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [29] T. E. Foundation, “Azure rtos is now eclipse threadx,” https://threadx.io/, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [30] E. ThreadX, “Eclipse threadx netxduo,” https://github.com/ eclipse-threadx/netxduo, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [31] Z. Project, “Zephyr project documentation - configuration system,” https: //docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/build/kconfig/index.html, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [32] R. OS, “Kconfig in riot — riot documentation,” https://doc.riot-os.org/ kconfig-in-riot.html, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. 14

[33] M. B ¨ohme, V .-T. Pham, and A. Roychoudhury, “Coverage-based grey- box fuzzing as markov chain,” in Proceedings of the 23rd ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS) , Vienna, Austria, Oct. 2016. [34] L. Project, “libfuzzer - a library for coverage-guided fuzz testing.” https: //llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [35] A. Fioraldi, D. Maier, H. Eißfeldt, and M. Heuse, “Afl++: Combining incremental steps of fuzzing research,” in Proceedings of the 14th USENIX Workshop on Offensive Technologies (WOOT) , Boston, MA, Aug. 2020. [36] Z. Project, “Zephyr project documentation - fuzzing,” https://docs. zephyrproject.org/latest/samples/subsys/debug/fuzz/README.html, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [37] R. OS, “Fuzzing utilities — riot documentation,” https://doc.riot-os.org/ group sys fuzzing.html, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [38] F. Bellard, “Qemu, a fast and portable dynamic translator.” in Proceed- ings of the 2005 USENIX Annual Technical Conference (ATC) , Anaheim, CA, Jun. 2005. [39] N. A. Quynh and D. H. Vu, “Unicorn: Next generation cpu emulator framework,” Aug. 2015. [40] A. Fasano, T. Ballo, M. Muench, T. Leek, A. Bulekov, B. Dolan- Gavitt, M. Egele, A. Francillon, L. Lu, N. Gregory, D. Balzarotti, and W. Robertson, “Sok: Enabling security analyses of embedded systems via rehosting,” in Proceedings of the 16th ACM Symposium on Information, Computer and Communications Security (ASIACCS) , Hong Kong, China, Jun. 2016. [41] J. Chen, W. Diao, Q. Zhao, C. Zuo, Z. Lin, X. Wang, W. C. Lau, M. Sun, R. Yang, and K. Zhang, “Iotfuzzer: Discovering memory corruptions in iot through app-based fuzzing.” in Proceedings of the 2018 Annual Network and Distributed System Security Symposium (NDSS) , San Diego, CA, Feb. 2018. [42] J. Ruge, J. Classen, F. Gringoli, and M. Hollick, “Frankenstein: Ad- vanced wireless fuzzing to exploit new bluetooth escalation targets,” in Proceedings of the 29th USENIX Security Symposium (Security) , Boston, MA, Aug. 2020. [43] E. Gustafson, M. Muench, C. Spensky, N. Redini, A. Machiry, Y . Fratan- tonio, D. Balzarotti, A. Francillon, Y . R. Choe, C. Kruegel, and G. Vigna, “Toward the analysis of embedded firmware through automated re- hosting,” in Proceedings of the 22nd International Symposium on Research in Attacks, Intrusions and Defenses (RAID) , Beijing, China, Sep. 2019. [44] M. Muench, D. Nisi, A. Francillon, and D. Balzarotti, “Avatar 2: A multi- target orchestration platform,” in Proceedings of the NDSS Workshop on Binary Analysis Research (BAR) , San Diego, CA, Feb. 2018. [45] I. Bluetooth SIG, “Part e. host controller interface functional specification,” https://www.bluetooth.com/wp-content/uploads/ Files/Specification/HTML/Core-54/out/en/host-controller-interface/ host-controller-interface-functional-specification.html, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [46] Y . Sui and J. Xue, “Svf: interprocedural static value-flow analysis in llvm,” in Proceedings of the 25th international conference on compiler construction . ACM, 2016, pp. 265–266. [47] R. P. Agarwal, M. Meehan, and D. O’regan, Fixed point theory and applications . Cambridge university press, 2001, vol. 141. [48] D. Maier and L. Seidel, “Jmpscare: Introspection for binary-only fuzzing,” in Proceedings of the NDSS Workshop on Binary Analysis Research (BAR) , Virtual, Feb. 2021. [49] M. Might, Y . Smaragdakis, and D. Van Horn, “Resolving and exploiting the k-cfa paradox: illuminating functional vs. object-oriented program analysis,” in Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation , 2010, pp. 305– 315. [50] C. Lattner and V . Adve, “Llvm: A compilation framework for lifelong program analysis & transformation,” in International symposium on code generation and optimization, 2004. CGO 2004. IEEE, 2004, pp. 75–86. [51] Z. Project, “Zephyr project documentation - native simulator - na- tive sim,” https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/boards/native/native sim/ doc/index.html, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [52] R. OS, “Posix wrapper for riot — riot documentation,” https://doc. riot-os.org/group posix.html, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [53] FreeRTOS™, “Posix/linux simulator demo for freertos using gcc,” https://freertos.org/Documentation/02-Kernel/ 03-Supported-devices/04-Demos/03-Emulation-and-simulation/Linux/ FreeRTOS-simulator-for-Linux, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15.[54] E. ThreadX, “Posix compliancy wrapper for azure rtos threadx,” https://github.com/eclipse-threadx/threadx/blob/master/utility/rtos compatibility layers/posix/readme threadx posix.txt, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [55] G. Klees, A. Ruef, B. Cooper, S. Wei, and M. Hicks, “Evaluating fuzz testing,” in Proceedings of the 25th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS) , Toronto, ON, Canada, Oct. 2018. [56] G. Bumble, “Bluetooth stack for apps, emulation, test and experimen- tation,” https://github.com/google/bumble/, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [57] Y . Sui, P. Di, and J. Xue, “Sparse flow-sensitive pointer analysis for multithreaded programs,” in Proceedings of the 2016 International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization , 2016, pp. 160–170. [58] M. Hind, M. Burke, P. Carini, and J.-D. Choi, “Interprocedural pointer alias analysis,” ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems (TOPLAS) , vol. 21, no. 4, pp. 848–894, 1999. [59] Y . Shoshitaishvili, R. Wang, C. Salls, N. Stephens, M. Polino, A. Dutcher, J. Grosen, S. Feng, C. Hauser, C. Kruegel, and G. Vigna, “Sok: (state of) the art of war: Offensive techniques in binary analysis,” inProceedings of the 37th IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (Oakland) , San Jose, CA, May 2016. [60] OpenSSL, “Openssl documentation,” https://docs.openssl.org/master/, accessed: 2025-12-15. [61] B. Feng, A. Mera, and L. Lu, “P2im: Scalable and hardware-independent firmware testing via automatic peripheral interface modeling,” in Pro- ceedings of the 29th USENIX Security Symposium (Security) , Boston, MA, Aug. 2020. [62] I. Angelakopoulos, G. Stringhini, and M. Egele, “Firmdiff: Improving the configuration of linux kernels geared towards firmware re-hosting,” inProceedings of the NDSS Workshop on Binary Analysis Research (BAR) , San Diego, CA, Feb. 2024. [63] W. Li, L. Guan, J. Lin, J. Shi, and F. Li, “From library portability to para- rehosting: Natively executing microcontroller software on commodity hardware,” Feb. 2021. [64] H. Green and T. Avgerinos, “Graphfuzz: library api fuzzing with lifetime-aware dataflow graphs,” in Proceedings of the 44th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) , Pittsburgh, USA, May 2022. [65] C. Zhang, X. Lin, Y . Li, Y . Xue, J. Xie, H. Chen, X. Ying, J. Wang, and Y . Liu, “Apicraft: Fuzz driver generation for closed-source sdk libraries,” inProceedings of the 30th USENIX Security Symposium (Security) , Virtual, Aug. 2021. [66] R. OS, “Gnrc lorawan — riot documentation,” https://api.riot-os.org/ group net gnrc lorawan.html, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [67] T. Scharnowski, N. Bars, M. Schloegel, E. Gustafson, M. Muench, G. Vigna, C. Kruegel, T. Holz, and A. Abbasi, “Fuzzware: Using precise mmio modeling for effective firmware fuzzing,” in Proceedings of the 31st USENIX Security Symposium (Security) , Boston, MA, Aug. 2022. [68] L. Project, “libfuzzer - a library for coverage-guided fuzz testing.” https: //llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html#corpus, 2025, accessed: 2025-12-15. [69] Google, “Structure-aware fuzzing with libfuzzer,” https://github.com/ google/fuzzing/blob/master/docs/structure-aware-fuzzing.md, 2025, ac- cessed: 2025-12-15.

## APPENDIX A

## ADDITIONAL CASE STUDIES

Case study 1: An out-of-bounds read in RIOT (Bug #20). Figure 9 shows an out-of-bound read vulnerability discovered by RTC ONin RIOT. The vulnerability is found in gnrc_ lorawan_mic_is_valid of RIOT LoRaWAN module [66]. The vulnerability is triggered at line 16; it reads the fcnt field of the lorawan_hdr structure without checking the size of the received buffer. Consequently, this leads to an out-of-bounds read in the user input buffer buf. To reach the vulnerable code, we need to pass through device-specific functions (Lines 22-23) that are initialized during the boot process. Without proper initialization of these devices, traditional fuzzers would crash when attempting to call an uninitialized function ( dev->driver->set ) (Line 3) or reference an empty device structure ( &lw_netif->timer ) 15

1static void _sleep_radio(gnrc_lorawan_t *mac) { 2 netdev_t *dev = gnrc_lorawan_get_netdev(mac); 3 dev->driver->set(dev, NETOPT_STATE, &state, sizeof (state)); 4} 5 6void gnrc_lorawan_remove_timer(gnrc_lorawan_t *mac) { 7 gnrc_netif_lorawan_t *lw_netif = container_of(mac, ...); 8 ztimer_remove(ZTIMER_MSEC, &lw_netif->timer); 9} 10 11static int gnrc_lorawan_mic_is_valid( uint8_t *buf, size_t len, 12 ... ) { 13 lorawan_hdr_t *lw_hdr = (lorawan_hdr_t *)buf; 14 15 // No header size check before referencing the header 16 uint32_t fcnt = byteorder_ltohs( lw_hdr->fcnt); 17} 18 19void gnrc_lorawan_radio_rx_done_cb(gnrc_lorawan_t *mac, 20 uint8_t *psdu, size_t size) { 21 // Device specific codes 22 _sleep_radio(mac); 23 gnrc_lorawan_remove_timer(mac); 24 25 // Call to vulnerable function 26 gnrc_lorawan_mic_is_valid(psdu, size); 27} Fig. 9: An out-of-bound read vulnerability in RIOT. 1static void rfcomm_handle_data( struct bt_rfcomm_session *session, 2 struct net_buf *buf, uint8_t dlci, uint8_t pf) { 3 struct bt_rfcomm_dlc *dlc; 4 5 // 1. Get Data Link Connection (dlc) object from current session 6 dlc = rfcomm_dlcs_lookup_dlci(session->dlcs, dlci); 7 if(!dlc) { 8 LOG_ERR("Data recvd in non existing DLC"); 9 rfcomm_send_dm(session, dlci); 10 return ; 11 } 12 13 // 2. Check if the Data Link Connection is connected 14 if(dlc->state != BT_RFCOMM_STATE_CONNECTED) { 15 return ; 16 } 17 18 // 3. Check Poll/Final bit in the frame 19 if(pf == BT_RFCOMM_PF_UIH_CREDIT) { 20 // net_buf_pull_u8 pulls data from the empty buffer buf 21 rfcomm_dlc_tx_give_credits(dlc, net_buf_pull_u8(buf)); 22 } 23 ... 24} Fig. 10: CVE-2024-6258: Out-of-bounds read in Zephyr. (Line 8). This may be resolved by emulating the peripher- als [38], [61], [67] or testing on real devices [41] equipped with corresponding peripherals. However, such approaches are time-consuming and known to have scalability issues. In contrast, RTC ONcan generate mockup device structures in the fuzzing campaign, allowing it to directly fuzz the target function without emulation or real devices. Case study 2: Out-of-bounds read in Zephyr (Bug #7, CVE-2024-6258). Figure 10 shows an out-of-bounds read vulnerability in rfcomm_handle_data in Zephyr, which was discovered by RTC ON. The vulnerability is triggered at line 21;net_buf_pull_u8 can pull data from an empty buffer as this function does not check the remaining data length. Even though the bug seems to be simple, it is non-trivial to reach this code. For that, we require 1a valid Bluetooth RFCOMM session as well as Data Link Connection ( dlc) (Line 6) and 2state of Data Link Connection should be in the connected state (Line 14). Additionally, 3the specific bitfield of frame type ( pf) should be set to BT_RFCOMM_PF_UIH_CREDIT (Line 19). As we can imagine, it is challenging to reach this code with end-to-end testing or traditional function-level fuzzing.1// Global buffer size: 253 2uint8_t rsp_buf[253]; 3 4static ssize_t ascs_qos( struct bt_conn *conn, 5 struct net_buf_simple *buf) { 6 struct bt_ascs_qos_op *req; 7 req = net_buf_simple_pull_mem(buf, sizeof (*req)); 8 9 // Vulnerable code 10 // Missing bound check for req->num_ases 11 for (uint8_t i = 0; i < req->num_ases; i++) { 12 // Parsing QoS request 13 qos = net_buf_simple_pull_mem(buf, sizeof (*qos)); 14 15 // Find Audio Stream Endpoint(ASE) by id 16 ase = ase_find(conn, qos->ase); 17 if(!ase) { 18 // allocate response buffer with 19 // size of 3 (sizeof( *ase_rsp)) 20 ase_rsp = net_buf_simple_add(&rsp_buf, 21 sizeof (*ase_rsp)); 22 // Global Out-of-bounds Write 23 ase_rsp->id = qos->ase; 24 continue ; 25 } 26 } 27} Fig. 11: CVE-2024-6442: Out-of-bound write in Zephyr. In more detail, end-to-end testing requires a valid RFCOMM session, which is difficult to set up due to the complexity of the Bluetooth protocol. Similarly, traditional function-level fuzzing cannot reach the vulnerable code as it requires specific contexts that are hard to generate due to the complexity of their structures (e.g., session ). However, RTC ONcan adaptively generate valid contexts to reach the vulnerable code effectively. This is achieved by populating appropriate context values on demand, without the need for analyzing complex structures. Case study 3: Out-of-bound write in Zephyr (Bug #6, CVE- 2024-6442). Figure 11 of Appendix shows an out-of-bound write vulnerability discovered by RTC ONin Zephyr. The vul- nerability is found in ascs_qos of Zephyr Bluetooth Audio Stream Control Service (ASCS). The vulnerability is triggered at line 11; it fails to check the maximum number of Audio Stream Endpoint (ASE) QoS requests ( req->num_ases ) be- fore using it in the loop condition. This leads to QoS requests being excessively processed, each allocating an ASE id and adding it into the global response buffer rsp_buf (Line 20). Consequently, this results in an out-of-bounds write to the global buffer in the following code at line 23.

## APPENDIX B

## ROADBLOCK FUNCTIONS

Figure 12 shows an example of checksum validation in Zephyr, FreeRTOS, which led to 13 bugs being missed by the verifier harnesses. In Figure 12a, rfcomm_recv starts with receiving a message buf from the user. The function then validates the checksum of the message us- ingrfcomm_check_fcs (Line 5). If the checksum is in- valid, the function returns an error without reaching the vulnerable function rfcomm_handle_data (Line 11). Sim- ilarly, in Figure 12b, the checksum validation routines in IP packet processing, usGenerateChecksum (Line 1) and usGenerateProtocolChecksum (Line 9) immediately stop packet processing when the checksum is invalid. Therefore, 16

1static int rfcomm_recv( struct bt_l2cap_chan *chan, 2 struct net_buf *buf) { 3 ... 4 /*It should pass crc checksum */ 5 if(!rfcomm_check_fcs(fcs_len, buf->data, fcs)) { 6 LOG_ERR("FCS check failed"); 7 return 0; 8 } 9 ... 10 case BT_RFCOMM_UIH: 11 rfcomm_handle_data(...); // target function 12 ... 13} (a) A checksum validation routine in Zephyr 1if(usGenerateChecksum(0U, 2 (const uint8_t *)&(pxIPHeader->ucVersionHeaderLength), 3 (size_t )uxHeaderLength) != ipCORRECT_CRC) 4{ 5 /*Check sum in IP-header not correct. */ 6 eReturn = eReleaseBuffer; 7} 8/*Is the upper-layer checksum (TCP/UDP/ICMP) correct? */ 9else if (usGenerateProtocolChecksum( 10 (uint8_t *)(pxNetworkBuffer->pucEthernetBuffer), 11 pxNetworkBuffer->xDataLength, 12 pdFALSE) != ipCORRECT_CRC) 13{ 14 /*Protocol checksum not accepted. */ 15 eReturn = eReleaseBuffer; 16} 17else 18{ 19 /*The checksum of the received packet is OK. */ 20} (b) A checksum validation routine in FreeRTOS Fig. 12: An example of road-blocking routine to reach the vulnerable function, the verifier harness should generate a valid message that passes the checksum validation. However, due to the complexity of the checksum algorithm, the verifier harness could not generate such a message within the limited time frame.

## APPENDIX C

## BUGFINDING CAPABILITY ON KNOWN RTOS

## VULNERABILITIES

Experimental Setup. We further evaluate RTC ONon pub- licly disclosed vulnerabilities in three RTOSes: Zephyr, RIOT, and ThreadX. In total, we collected 20 vulnerabilities that are solely triggered by user inputs: 8 from Zephyr, 6 from RIOT, and 6 from ThreadX. In the case of FreeRTOS, we could not find any publicly disclosed vulnerabilities with sufficient information for reproduction. For each vulnerability, we set up its corresponding vulnerable version and executed RTC ON for 24 hours under the same experimental environment as described in §VI. Result. Table VII shows the detailed results of RTC ON’s bug finding capability on previously known RTOS vulnerabilities. To summarize, RTC ONsuccessfully detected all bugs except for CVE-2025-0727 in ThreadX. RTC ONcould not detect CVE-2025-0727 because it requires highly structured input (i.e., HTTP PUT message). Within the given time limit, RTC ONcould not generate such highly structured inputs (i.e., an HTTP request) from random bytes. Nevertheless, since RTC ONgenerates harnesses based on libfuzzer [34], it can beTABLE VII: Bug finding capability of RTC ONon previously known RTOS vulnerabilities. Note that FreeRTOS vulnerabil- ities are excluded due to lack of disclosure. RTC ONdetected all bugs except CVE-2025-0727 in ThreadX, which requires highly structured input (e.g., HTTP PUT message). Project CVE Subsystem FoundConfidence

## H U L

ZephyrCVE-2021-3323 6LoWPAN ✔ ✔

## CVE-2021-3434 BT L2CAP ✔ ✔

## CVE-2021-3966 BT HCI ✔ ✔

## CVE-2023-0396 BT HCI ✔ ✔

CVE-2023-4264 BT Audio ✔ ✔ GHSA-56p9-5p3v-hhrc MGMT ✔ ✔

## CVE-2023-5055 BT L2CAP ✔ ✔

## CVE-2024-3077 BT GATT ✔ ✔

## RIOTCVE-2023-24817 GNRC ✔ ✔

CVE-2023-24819 6LoWPAN ✔ ✔ CVE-2023-24820 6LoWPAN ✔ ✔ CVE-2023-24821 6LoWPAN ✔ ✔

## CVE-2023-24825 GNRC ✔ ✔

CVE-2023-33975 6LoWPAN ✔ ✔ ThreadXCVE-2025-0727 HTTP ✗

## CVE-2025-55090 IP ✔ ✔

## CVE-2025-55091 IP ✔ ✔

## CVE-2025-55092 IP ✔ ✔

## CVE-2025-55093 IP ✔ ✔

## CVE-2025-55094 ICMP ✔ ✔

addressed by supplying predefined corpora [68] and custom mutators [69] to effectively test structured inputs. Other vulnerabilities, all except CVE-2025-55092 and CVE- 2025-55094, were detected with either high or unverifiable confidence, meaning that RTC ONeither verified the bugs from the top-layer function or detected them directly at the top- layer function. These two vulnerabilities could not be verified because their execution paths are blocked by checksum vali- dation routines, which are the roadblock functions discussed in §B. 17

TABLE VIII: Detailed total line coverage measured in RTOSes. p-values (two-sided) are bolded when they show statistical significance ( p <0.05). RTOSRTC ON Manual RTC ON−FuzzSlice FuzzGen Mean Mean Difference p-value Mean Difference p-value Mean Difference p-value Mean Difference p-value Zephyr 12.17% 12.81% -0.64% 0.008 5.25% 6.93% 0.012 0.00% 12.17% 0.007 3.16% 9.02% 0.007

## RIOT 19.96% 20.81% -0.86% 0.222 11.84% 8.12% 0.008 5.99% 13.97% 0.012 3.92% 16.04% 0.011

FreeRTOS 30.52% 22.51% 8.02% 0.008 14.20% 16.32% 0.012 6.49% 24.04% 0.011 2.03% 28.49% 0.012 ThreadX 11.74% 11.45% 0.29% 0.310 7.23% 4.51% 0.008 1.76% 9.97% 0.011 0.52% 11.22% 0.010 1/*Adapter for testing net_buf structure */ 2void testNetBuf(__uint8_t *Data, size_t Size) { 3 struct net_buf buf; 4 buf.data = Data; 5 buf.__buf = Data; 6 buf.size = Size; 7 buf.len = Size; 8 /*Invoke the target function */ 9 fuzzEntryFunction(&buf, Size); 10} 11 12static void fuzzEntryFunctionHelper(__uint8_t *Data, 13 size_t Size) { 14 /*User can change the adapter function here */ 15 testNetBuf(Data, Size); 16} Fig. 13: Adapter code for testing net_buf in Zephyr. TABLE IX: Bug finding capability of RTC ONin general libraries, compared to AFGen. Library ID Type Found libtiff CVE-2022-34526 Buffer Overflow - ffjpegpull request 45 Buffer Overflow ✔ pull request 46 Buffer Overflow ✔ CVE-2021-45385 Buffer Overflow ✔ tcpreplayCVE-2021-45386 Reachable Assertion ✔ CVE-2021-45387 Reachable Assertion ✔ CVE-2022-45484 Reachable Assertion ✔ CVE-2023-27783 Reachable Assertion ✔ CVE-2023-27784 Null Pointer Deref ✔ CVE-2023-27785 Null Pointer Deref ✔ CVE-2023-27786 Null Pointer Deref ✔ CVE-2023-27787 Null Pointer Deref ✔ CVE-2023-27788 Reachable Assertion ✔ CVE-2023-27789 Reachable Assertion ✔ libmingCVE-2023-23051 Memory Leak ✔ CVE-2023-23052 Memory Leak ✔ CVE-2023-23053 Memory Leak ✔ CVE-2023-23054 Infinite Loop N/A ngiflibCVE-2021-36530 Buffer Overflow ✔ CVE-2021-36531 Buffer Overflow ✔ CVE-2022-30857 Buffer Overflow ✔ CVE-2022-30858 Buffer Overflow ▲ liblouisCVE-2023-26767 Buffer Overflow ✔ CVE-2023-26768 Buffer Overflow ✔ CVE-2023-26769 Buffer Overflow ✔ jhead CVE-2022-28550 Buffer Overflow ✔ -: Not reproduced in RTC ONor AFGen. ✔: Found. ▲: Found with simple hooks. N/A: Not applicableTABLE X: Average harness size, analysis time of A NALYZER , and build time with and without ACG for each RTOS. The analysis was conducted on the same machine used for the evaluation, using a single core, and repeated five times. Note that both A NALYZER and ACG need to be executed only once per harness. The analysis time increases as the size of the target RTOS codebase grows (e.g., Zephyr) or when the target function becomes more complex (e.g., ThreadX). Size (MB)ANALYZERw/o ACG (s)Taint analysis (Building CG) (s) + ACG (s) Zephyr 170.5 2146.0 149.1 274.4 (+84.0 %)

## RIOT 7.1 86.1 27.9 64.1 (+129.7 %)

FreeRTOS 11.4 26.3 5.6 20.6 (+267.9 %) ThreadX 38.9 234.6 107.2 221.8 (+106.9 %) Algorithm 1: Single Function Taint Propagation 1Input: Function F, Taint instruction set T, Context parame- ters{p1, p2, . . . , p n} Output: Updated Taint instruction set T 2Function TaintPropagation( F,T,{p1, p2, . . . , p n}): 3 T←T∪ {p1, p2, . . . , p n}; 4 forI∈Fdo 5 ifIis Store(from, to) then 6 iffrom∈Tand to /∈Tthen 7 T←T∪ {to, I}; 8 else if to∈Tthen

## 9 T←T∪ {I};

10 else if Iis (Load or GetElementPtr or Phi or Binary or Cast or Cmp or Switch) then 11 if∃operand ∈operands s.t.operand ∈Tthen

## 12 T←T∪ {I};

13 else if Iis Call(callee, args. . . ) then 14 ifisFunctionAnalyzed( callee )then 15 ifisReturnTainted( callee )then

## 16 T←T∪ {I};

17 foreach idx∈taintedParamIdxs( callee )do 18 T←T∪ {args[idx]}; 19 else

## 20 T←T∪ {I};

21 return T; 18

## APPENDIX D

## ARTIFACT APPENDIX

A. Description & Requirements

- 1) How to access: The artifact is provided as a

repository that contains the build environment, scripts, and binaries necessary for executing the fuzzing ex- periments. The artifact package can be accessed at: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.17540919

- 2) Hardware dependencies: A machine with at least 8 CPU

cores and 16 GB RAM is recommended for single-function tests. Multi-function tests can utilize up to 92 CPU cores and may require high-performance compute resources.

- 3) Software dependencies: Docker, Docker compose

- 4) Benchmarks: The evaluation was conducted against in-

ternal functions derived from RTOS subsystems (e.g., Blue- tooth stack, TCP/IP modules). Configuration files specifying function lists and test parameters are located in the repository. B. Artifact Installation & Configuration The installation and configuration steps for the artifact can be found in the repository README. The artifact can be executed directly via Docker without additional dependencies. C. Experiment Workflow Two experiments are supported: (1) Single-function fuzzing (recommended for quick evaluation). (2) Multi-function fuzzing (for large-scale, resource-intensive evaluation). The high-level experimental workflow consists of four steps: 1) installing and configuring the build and evaluation settings, 2) building test harnesses for function-level fuzzing, 3) running the fuzzer, and 4) analyzing the results. D. Major Claims •(C1): RTC ONenables function-level fuzzing of RTOS kernels to discover real-world vulnerabilities. This is proven by the experiment (E1) whose results are reported in Table III. •(C2): RTC ONclassifies detected crashes based on confi- dence levels. This is proven by the experiment (E1 and E2) whose results are reported in Table VI. •(C3): RTC ONachieves effective line coverage whose results are reported in Fig 10. This is proven by the exeperiment (E2).E. Evaluation While the experiments can partially reproduce the results, full reproduction requires conducting large-scale experiments for 24 hours on the same machine configuration described in the paper.

- 1) Experiment (E1): [Single-Function Fuzzing] [1

compute-hour]: This experiment builds and executes harnesses for single function-level fuzzing to detect real-world bugs in RTOS kernels. Discovered bugs are automatically classified by their confidence level. [Preparation] Build the corresponding Docker image and identify the target function to fuzz. A detailed list of available target functions can be found in: eval/config/[project]-func- list-reduced.txt . [Execution] After building the Docker image, run the fol- lowing command to build the harness: docker run -it cgcc-[project]:latest \ [file location] [function] [test type] \ [MLC enable] The harness can be executed in three modes: •Naive Run: mkdir corpus && \ ./host_bin/<target>-fuzz corpus/ \ &>/tmp/result •Run Without MLC (e.g., 30s timeout): /scripts/run_fuzz_single.py \ <Function> 30 •Run With MLC (Recommended, e.g., 300s timeout): /scripts/run_fuzz_cross.py 300 [Results] Crash reports are stored under: crash dir/crash [function name] . When multi-layer fuzzing (MLC) is enabled, summarized high-confidence crash reports are available in: crash dir/high confidence . Coverage data for each harness is recorded in: coverage dir/coverage [function name] .

- 2) Experiment (E2): [Multi-Function Fuzzing] [24

compute-hour]: This experiment builds and executes harnesses for entire function sets to reproduce the line coverage RTC ONdiscovered. [Preparation] Build the corresponding Docker image and configure the evaluation setup. A detailed experiment parame- ters in the configuration file: eval/config/config.py . By default, the configuration enables up to 92 CPU cores, a 24-hour timeout, and MLC disabled. [Execution] After loading the Docker image, execute the following command within the eval/scripts directory to launch a large-scale fuzzing campaign: # Format: # ./run_eval.py <Project> [Subsystem] # Example: RIOT ./run_eval.py RIOT [Results] To inspect the overall coverage, run the base con- tainer while mounting the output directory using the following command: 19

docker run --rm -it \ --volume=[out directory]:/out cgcc-base:latest Inside the container, merge and generate a summary of the coverage report with the following command: # Format: # /scripts/view_coverage.py [project] # Example: RIOT /scripts/view_coverage.py RIOT 20
